    "abstract": "Cancer, a disease intimately linked to cellular mutations, is commonly believed to exhibit a positive association with the cell count and lifespan of a species. Despite this assumption, the observed uniformity in cancer rates across species, referred to as the Peto's paradox, presents a conundrum. Recognizing that tumour progression is not solely dependent on cancer cells but involves intricate interactions among various cell types, this study employed a Lotka-Volterra (LV) ordinary differential equation model to analyze the evolution of cancerous cells and the cancer incidence in an immune environment. As a result, this study uncovered the sufficient conditions underlying the absence of correlation in Peto's paradox and provide insights into the reasons for the equitable distribution of cancer incidence across diverse species by applying nondimensionalization and drawing an analogy between the characteristic time interval for the variation of cell populations in the ODE model and that of cell cycles of a species.",
    "title": "Revealing endogenous conditions for Peto's paradox via an ordinary differential equation model.",
    "abstract": "The Yangtze River (hereafter referred to as the YZR), the largest river in China, is of paramount importance for ensuring water resource security. The Yangtze River Basin (hereafter referred to as the YRB) is one of the most densely populated areas in China, and complex human activities have a significant impact on the ecological security of water resources. Therefore, this paper employs theories related to ecological population evolution and the Driving Force-Pressure-State-Impact-Response (DPSIR) model to construct an indicator system for the ecological security of water resources in the YRB. The report evaluates the ecological security status of water resources in each province of the YRB from 2010 to 2019, clarifies the development trend of its water resource ecological security, and proposes corresponding strategies for regional ecological security and coordinated economic development. According to the results of the ecological population evolution competition model, the overall indicator of the ecological security of water resources in the YRB continues to improve, with the safety level increasing annually. Maintaining sound management of water resources in the YRB is crucial for sustainable socioeconomic development. To further promote the ecological security of water resources in the YRB and the coordinated development of the regional economy, this paper proposes policy suggestions such as promoting the continuous advancement of sustainable development projects, actively adjusting industrial structure, continuously enhancing public environmental awareness, and actively participating in international ecological construction and seeking cooperation among multiple departments.",
    "title": "Exploring the ecological security evaluation of water resources in the Yangtze River Basin under the background of ecological sustainable development.",
    "abstract": "The assembly and persistence of ecological communities can be understood as the result of the interaction and migration of species. Here we study a single community subject to migration from a species pool in which inter-specific interactions are organised according to a bipartite network. Considering the dynamics of species abundances to be governed by generalised Lotka-Volterra equations, we extend work on unipartite networks to we derive exact results for the phase diagram of this model. Focusing on antagonistic interactions, we describe factors that influence the persistence of the two guilds, locate transitions to multiple-attractor and unbounded phases, as well as identifying a region of parameter space in which consumers are essentially absent in the local community.",
    "title": "The persistence of bipartite ecological communities with Lotka-Volterra dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Biotic and abiotic stresses have emerged as major constraints to agricultural production, causing irreversible adverse impacts on agricultural production systems and thus posing a threat to food security. In this study, a new strain of Bacillus subtilis DNYB-S1 was isolated from soil contaminated with Fusarium wilt. It was found that artificially synthetic flora (YJ-1) [Enterobacter sp. DNB-S2 and Rhodococcus pyridinovorans DNHP-S2, DNYB-S1] could effectively mitigate both biotic (Fusarium wilt) and abiotic (phthalates) sources of stresses, with the inhibition rate of YJ-1 resistant to wilt being 71.25% and synergistic degradation of 500\u00a0mg/L PAEs was 91.23%. The adaptive difference of YJ-1 was 0.59 and the ecological niche overlap value was -0.05 as determined by Lotka-Volterra modeling. These results indicate that YJ-1 has good ecological stability. The major degradation intermediates included 2-ethylhexyl benzoate (EHBA), phthalic acid (PA), diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP), and butyl benzoate, suggesting that YJ-1 can provide a more efficient pathway for PAEs degradation. In addition, there was metabolic mutualism among the strains that will selectively utilize the provided carbon source (some metabolites of PAEs) for growth. The pot experiment showed that YJ-1 with cucumber reduced the incidence of cucumber wilt by 45.31%. YJ-1 could reduce the concentration of PAEs (DBP: DEHP\u00a0=\u00a01:1) in soil species from 30\u00a0mg/kg to 4.26\u00a0mg/kg within 35\u00a0d, with a degradation efficiency of 85.81%. Meanwhile, the concentration of PAEs in cucumber was reduced to 0.01\u00a0mg/kg, indicating that YJ-1 is directly involved in the degradation of soil PAEs and the enhancement of plant immunity. In conclusion, this study provides a new perspective for the development of customized microbiomes for phytoremediation under combined biotic-abiotic stresses in agricultural production processes.",
    "title": "Mechanisms of synthetic bacterial flora YJ-1 to enhance cucumber resistance under combined phthalate-disease stresses.",
    "abstract": "Food webs depict the tangled web of trophic interactions associated with the functioning of an ecosystem. Understanding the mechanisms providing stability to these food webs is therefore vital for conservation efforts and the management of natural systems. Here, we first characterised a tropical stream meta-food web and five individual food webs using a Bayesian Hierarchical approach unifying three sources of information (gut content analysis, literature compilation and stable isotope data). With data on population-level biomass and individually measured body mass, we applied a bioenergetic model and assessed food web stability using a Lotka-Volterra system of equations. We then assessed the resilience of the system to individual species extinctions using simulations and investigated the network patterns associated with systems with higher stability. The model resulted in a stable meta-food web with 307 links among the 61 components. At the regional scale, 70% of the total energy flow occurred through a set of 10 taxa with large variation in body masses. The remaining 30% of total energy flow relied on 48 different taxa, supporting a significant dependency on a diverse community. The meta-food web was stable against individual species extinctions, with a higher resilience in food webs harbouring omnivorous fish species able to connect multiple food web compartments via weak, non-specialised interactions. Moreover, these fish species contributed largely to the spatial variation among individual food webs, suggesting that these species could operate as mobile predators connecting different streams and stabilising variability at the regional scale. Our results outline two key mechanisms of food web stability operating in tropical streams: (i) the diversity of species and body masses buffering against random and size-dependent disturbances and (ii) high regional diversity and weak omnivorous interactions of predators buffering against local stochastic variation in species composition. These mechanisms rely on high local and regional biodiversity in tropical streams, which is known to be strongly affected by human impacts. Therefore, an urgent challenge is to understand how the ongoing systematic loss of diversity jeopardises the stability of stream food webs in human-impacted landscapes.\nAs teias alimentares representam um emaranhado de intera\u00e7\u00f5es tr\u00f3ficas associadas ao funcionamento de um ecossistema. Compreender os mecanismos que proporcionam estabilidade a estas teias alimentares \u00e9, portanto, vital para os esfor\u00e7os de conserva\u00e7\u00e3o e gest\u00e3o dos sistemas naturais. Aqui, primeiro caracterizamos uma meta teia alimentar de riachos tropicais e cinco teias alimentares individuais usando uma abordagem hier\u00e1rquica Bayesiana unificando tr\u00eas fontes de informa\u00e7\u00e3o (an\u00e1lise de conte\u00fado estomacal, compila\u00e7\u00e3o de literatura, dados de is\u00f3topos est\u00e1veis). Com dados sobre biomassa em n\u00edvel populacional e massa corporal medida individualmente, aplicamos um modelo bioenerg\u00e9tico e avaliamos a estabilidade da cadeia alimentar usando um sistema de equa\u00e7\u00f5es Lotka\u2010Volterra. Em seguida, avaliamos a resili\u00eancia do sistema \u00e0s extin\u00e7\u00f5es de esp\u00e9cies individuais usando simula\u00e7\u00f5es e investigamos os padr\u00f5es de rede associados a sistemas com maior estabilidade. O modelo resultou em uma meta teia alimentar est\u00e1vel com 307 liga\u00e7\u00f5es entre os 61 componentes. Na escala regional, 70% do fluxo total de energia ocorreu atrav\u00e9s de um conjunto de dez taxa com grande varia\u00e7\u00e3o nas massas corporais. Os restantes 30% do fluxo total de energia dependiam de 47 taxa diferentes, apoiando uma depend\u00eancia significativa de uma comunidade diversificada. A meta teia alimentar foi est\u00e1vel contra extin\u00e7\u00f5es de esp\u00e9cies individuais, com uma maior resili\u00eancia em teias alimentares que abrigam esp\u00e9cies de peixes on\u00edvoros capazes de conectar m\u00faltiplos compartimentos da teia alimentar atrav\u00e9s de intera\u00e7\u00f5es fracas e n\u00e3o especializadas. Al\u00e9m disso, estas esp\u00e9cies de peixes contribu\u00edram amplamente para a varia\u00e7\u00e3o espacial entre as cadeias alimentares individuais, sugerindo que estas esp\u00e9cies poderiam operar como predadores m\u00f3veis conectando diferentes riachos e estabilizando a variabilidade \u00e0 escala regional. Nossos resultados descrevem dois mecanismos principais de estabilidade da cadeia alimentar operando em riachos tropicais: (i) a diversidade de esp\u00e9cies e massas corporais que protegem contra dist\u00farbios aleat\u00f3rios e dependentes do tamanho (ii) alta diversidade regional e fracas intera\u00e7\u00f5es on\u00edvoras de predadores que protegem contra a varia\u00e7\u00e3o estoc\u00e1stica local na composi\u00e7\u00e3o de esp\u00e9cies. Estes mecanismos dependem de uma elevada biodiversidade local e regional em riachos tropicais, que s\u00e3o conhecidos por serem fortemente afetados pelos impactos humanos. Portanto, um desafio urgente \u00e9 compreender como a cont\u00ednua perda sistem\u00e1tica de diversidade p\u00f5e em risco a estabilidade das teias alimentares em paisagens impactadas pelo homem.",
    "title": "Untangling the complex food webs of tropical rainforest streams.",
    "abstract": "It is necessary to predict the critical transition of lake ecosystems due to their abrupt, non-linear effects on social-economic systems. Given the promising application of paleolimnological archives to tracking the historical changes of lake ecosystems, it is speculated that they can also record the lake's critical transition. We studied Lake Dali-Nor in the arid region of Inner Mongolia because of the profound shrinking the lake experienced between the 1300\u00a0s and the 1600\u00a0s. We reconstructed the succession of bacterial communities from a 140-cm-long sediment core at 4-cm intervals and detected the critical transition. Our results showed that the historical trajectory of bacterial communities from the 1200\u00a0s to the 2010s was divided into two alternative states: state1 from 1200 to 1300\u00a0s and state2 from 1400 to 2010s. Furthermore, in the late 1300\u00a0s, the appearance of a tipping point and critical slowing down implied the existence of a critical transition. By using a multi-decadal time series from the sedimentary core, with general Lotka-Volterra model simulations, local stability analysis found that bacterial communities were the most unstable as they approached the critical transition, suggesting that the collapse of stability triggers the community shift from an equilibrium state to another state. Furthermore, the most unstable community harbored the strongest antagonistic and mutualistic interactions, which may imply the detrimental role of interaction strength on community stability. Collectively, our study showed that sediment DNA can be used to detect the critical transition of lake ecosystems.",
    "title": "Sediment DNA Records the Critical Transition of Bacterial Communities in the Arid Lake.",
    "abstract": "Quantification of chaos is a challenging issue in complex dynamical systems. In this paper, we discuss the chaotic properties of generalized Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard models of biodiversity, via the Hamming distance density. We identified chaotic behavior for different scenarios via the specific features of the Hamming distance and the method of q-exponential fitting. We also investigated the spatial autocorrelation length to find the corresponding characteristic length in terms of the number of species in each system. In particular, the results concerning the characteristic length are in good accordance with the study of the chaotic behavior implemented in this work.",
    "title": "Chaotic behavior in Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard models of biodiversity.",
    "abstract": "Many advanced cancers resist therapeutic intervention. This process is fundamentally related to intra-tumor heterogeneity: multiple cell populations, each with different mutational and phenotypic signatures, coexist within a tumor and its metastatic nodes. Like species in an ecosystem, many cancer cell populations are intertwined in a complex network of ecological interactions. Most mathematical models of tumor ecology, however, cannot account for such phenotypic diversity nor are able to predict its consequences. Here we propose that the Generalized Lotka-Volterra model (GLV), a standard tool to describe complex, species-rich ecological communities, provides a suitable framework to describe the ecology of heterogeneous tumors. We develop a GLV model of tumor growth and discuss how its emerging properties, such as outgrowth and multistability, provide a new understanding of the disease. Additionally, we discuss potential extensions of the model and their application to three active areas of cancer research, namely phenotypic plasticity, the cancer-immune interplay and the resistance of metastatic tumors to treatment. Our work outlines a set of questions and a tentative road map for further research in cancer ecology.",
    "title": "Modeling tumors as species-rich ecological communities.",
    "abstract": "Microbial communities in nature are dynamically evolving as member species change their interactions subject to environmental variations. Accounting for such context-dependent dynamic variations in interspecies interactions is critical for predictive ecological modeling. In the absence of generalizable theoretical foundations, we lack a fundamental understanding of how microbial interactions are driven by environmental factors, significantly limiting our capability to predict and engineer community dynamics and function. To address this issue, we propose a novel theoretical framework that allows us to represent interspecies interactions as an explicit function of environmental variables (such as substrate concentrations) by combining growth kinetics and a generalized Lotka-Volterra model. A synergistic integration of these two complementary models leads to the prediction of alterations in interspecies interactions as the outcome of dynamic balances between positive and negative influences of microbial species in mixed relationships. The effectiveness of our method was experimentally demonstrated using a synthetic consortium of two ",
    "title": "Kinetics-based inference of environment-dependent microbial interactions and their dynamic variation.",
    "abstract": "In recent years, there has been growing interest in harnessing anaerobic digestion technology for resource recovery from waste streams. This approach has evolved beyond its traditional role in energy generation to encompass the production of valuable carboxylic acids, especially volatile fatty acids (VFAs) like acetic acid, propionic acid, and butyric acid. VFAs hold great potential for various industries and biobased applications due to their versatile properties. Despite increasing global demand, over 90% of VFAs are currently produced synthetically from petrochemicals. Realizing the potential of large-scale biobased VFA production from waste streams offers significant eco-friendly opportunities but comes with several key challenges. These include low VFA production yields, unstable acid compositions, complex and expensive purification methods, and post-processing needs. Among these, production yield and acid composition stand out as the most critical obstacles impacting economic viability and competitiveness. This paper seeks to offer a comprehensive view of combining complementary modeling approaches, including kinetic and microbial modeling, to understand the workings of microbial communities and metabolic pathways in VFA production, enhance production efficiency, and regulate acid profiles through the integration of omics and bioreactor data.",
    "title": "Biobased short chain fatty acid production - Exploring microbial community dynamics and metabolic networks through kinetic and microbial modeling approaches.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we study in detail the structure of the global attractor for the Lotka-Volterra system with a Volterra-Lyapunov stable structural matrix. We consider the invasion graph as recently introduced in Hofbauer and Schreiber (J Math Biol 85:54, 2022) and prove that its edges represent all the heteroclinic connections between the equilibria of the system. We also study the stability of this structure with respect to the perturbation of the problem parameters. This allows us to introduce a definition of structural stability in ecology in coherence with the classical mathematical concept where there exists a detailed geometrical structure, robust under perturbation, that governs the transient and asymptotic dynamics.",
    "title": "Structural stability of invasion graphs for Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "While natural communities can contain hundreds of species, modern coexistence theory focuses primarily on species pairs. Alternatively, the structural stability approach considers the feasibility of equilibria, gaining scalability to larger communities but sacrificing information about dynamic stability. Three-species competitive communities are a bridge to more-diverse communities. They display novel phenomena while remaining amenable to mathematical analysis, but remain incompletely understood. Here, we combine these approaches to identify the key quantities that determine three-species competition outcomes. We show that pairwise niche overlap and fitness differences are insufficient to completely characterize competitive outcomes, which requires a strictly triplet-wise quantity: cyclic asymmetry, which underlies intransitivity. Low pairwise niche overlap stabilizes the triplet, while high fitness differences promote competitive exclusion. The effect of cyclic asymmetry on stability is complex and depends on pairwise niche overlap. In summary, we elucidate how pairwise niche overlap, fitness differences and cyclic asymmetry determine three-species competition outcomes.",
    "title": "The three-species problem: Incorporating competitive asymmetry and intransitivity in modern coexistence theory.",
    "abstract": "This study considers dynamics generated by a three-species Lotka-Volterra competitive model with two discrete delays. The associated characteristic equation is a cubic exponential polynomial. Assuming the stability of the three-species positive stationary point in the no-delay model, we construct a stability switching curve on which the characteristic equation has a purely imaginary root. Thus, the stability may be lost. It is numerically confirmed that the stationary point bifurcates to a limit cycle via a supercritical Hopf bifurcation when the delay crosses the stability switching curve. It is also demonstrated that as the delay gets larger, two of three species are active, and the remaining one is inactive along the cycle. The birth of complicated dynamics will be discussed in our future research.",
    "title": "Circular Lotka-Volterra Competitive System with Discrete Time Delays.",
    "abstract": "The use of predator-prey models in economics has a long history, and the model equations have largely evolved since the original Lotka-Volterra system towards more realistic descriptions of the economic dynamics of predation, competition, and synergy. Seminal examples in this regard are the business cycle model (Goodwin, 1967), chaotic hysteresis (Rosser, 1994), and the models of renewable resources (Clark, 1990). Given this background, this paper aims to analyse the mechanism of economic competition under different conditions, by adopting the unifying framework of niche models. Niche models are dynamic competition models that allow for a richer description of the interacting economic variables than the neoclassical economic theory. We conduct a qualitative study of the dynamic behaviour of firms of different types/sizes in the province di Bologna (Italy), analyzing - in discrete time - their competition through simula-tion experiments. It emerges that the economic system under analysis is coherent with different (in)stability patterns depending on different configurations of the firms within the market, by confirming the theory of industrial districts in the northeast of Italy.",
    "title": "A Niche Approach for Modeling Economic Competition.",
    "abstract": "Ecosystems are among the most interesting and well-studied examples of self-organized complex systems. Community ecology, the study of how species interact with each other and the environment, has a rich tradition. Over the last few years, there has been a growing theoretical and experimental interest in these problems from the physics and quantitative biology communities. Here, we give an overview of community ecology, highlighting the deep connections between ecology and statistical physics. We start by introducing the two classes of mathematical models that have served as the workhorses of community ecology: Consumer Resource Models (CRM) and the generalized Lotka-Volterra models (GLV). We place a special emphasis on graphical methods and general principles. We then review recent works showing a deep and surprising connection between ecological dynamics and constrained optimization. We then shift our focus by analyzing these same models in \"high-dimensions\" (i.e. in the limit where the number of species and resources in the ecosystem becomes large) and discuss how such complex ecosystems can be analyzed using methods from the statistical physics of disordered systems such as the cavity method and Random Matrix Theory.",
    "title": "Les Houches Lectures on Community Ecology: From Niche Theory to Statistical Mechanics.",
    "abstract": "The evolution of drug resistance leads to treatment failure and tumor progression. Intermittent androgen deprivation therapy (IADT) helps responsive cancer cells compete with resistant cancer cells in intratumoral competition. However, conventional IADT is population-based, ignoring the heterogeneity of patients and cancer. Additionally, existing IADT relies on pre-determined thresholds of prostate-specific antigen to pause and resume treatment, which is not optimized for individual patients. To address these challenges, we framed a data-driven method in two steps. First, we developed a time-varied, mixed-effect and generative Lotka-Volterra (tM-GLV) model to account for the heterogeneity of the evolution mechanism and the pharmacokinetics of two ADT drugs Cyproterone acetate and Leuprolide acetate for individual patients. Then, we proposed a reinforcement-learning-enabled individualized IADT framework, namely, I$^{2}$ADT, to learn the patient-specific tumor dynamics and derive the optimal drug administration policy. Experiments with clinical trial data demonstrated that the proposed I$^{2}$ADT can significantly prolong the time to progression of prostate cancer patients with reduced cumulative drug dosage. We further validated the efficacy of the proposed methods with a recent pilot clinical trial data. Moreover, the adaptability of I$^{2}$ADT makes it a promising tool for other cancers with the availability of clinical data, where treatment regimens might need to be individualized based on patient characteristics and disease dynamics. Our research elucidates the application of deep reinforcement learning to identify personalized adaptive cancer therapy.",
    "title": "Deep reinforcement learning identifies personalized intermittent androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer.",
    "abstract": "Understanding the organizational principles of microbial communities is essential for interpreting ecosystem stability. Previous studies have investigated the formation of bacterial communities under nutrient-poor conditions or obligate relationships to observe cooperative interactions among different species. How microorganisms form stabilized communities in nutrient-rich environments, without obligate metabolic interdependency for growth, is still not fully disclosed. In this study, three bacterial strains isolated from the \nBacteria naturally co-exist in multispecies consortia, and the ability to engineer such systems can be useful in biotechnology. Despite this, few studies have been performed to understand how bacteria form a stable community and interact with each other under nutrient-rich conditions. In this study, we investigated the effects of initial inoculum ratios on bacterial community structure using a complex medium and found that the initial inoculum ratio has no significant impact on resultant community structure or on interaction patterns between community members. The microbial population profiles were simulated using computational tools in order to understand intermicrobial relationships and to identify potential metabolic exchanges that occur during stabilization of the bacterial community. Studying microbial community assembly processes is essential for understanding fundamental ecological principles in microbial ecosystems and can be critical in predicting microbial community structure and function.",
    "title": "Formation of a constructed microbial community in a nutrient-rich environment indicates bacterial interspecific competition.",
    "abstract": "Since the emergence of a transmissible cancer, devil facial tumour disease (DFT1), in the 1980s, wild Tasmanian devil populations have been in decline. In 2016, a second, independently evolved transmissible cancer (DFT2) was discovered raising concerns for survival of the host species. Here, we applied experimental and modelling frameworks to examine competition dynamics between the two transmissible cancers in\u00a0vitro. Using representative cell lines for DFT1 and DFT2, we have found that in monoculture, DFT2 grows twice as fast as DFT1 but reaches lower maximum cell densities. Using co-cultures, we demonstrate that DFT2 outcompetes DFT1: the number of DFT1 cells decreasing over time, never reaching exponential growth. This phenomenon could not be replicated when cells were grown separated by a semi-permeable membrane, consistent with exertion of mechanical stress on DFT1 cells by DFT2. A logistic model and a Lotka-Volterra competition model were used to interrogate monoculture and co-culture growth curves, respectively, suggesting DFT2 is a better competitor than DFT1, but also showing that competition outcomes might depend on the initial number of cells, at least in the laboratory. We provide theories how the in\u00a0vitro results could be translated to observations in the wild and propose that these results may indicate that although DFT2 is currently in a smaller geographic area than DFT1, it could have the potential to outcompete DFT1. Furthermore, we provide a framework for improving the parameterization of epidemiological models applied to these cancer lineages, which will inform future disease management.",
    "doi": "10.1111/eva.13670\n10.18632/oncotarget.3430\n10.1073/pnas.0606053103\n10.1016/j.meegid.2022.105221\n10.3390/cancers13174448\n10.1016/j.bbcan.2021.188643\n10.1016/j.ceb.2017.10.003\n10.7554/eLife.35314\n10.1007/s00401-011-0928-6\n10.3389/fnmol.2019.00308\n10.1016/j.ccell.2014.09.009\n10.1111/ele.13703\n10.1002/bies.202000222\n10.1038/ncomms12684\n10.1126/sciadv.abm7212\n10.5962/bhl.title.27468\n10.1038/s41598-021-84406-3\n10.1101/cshperspect.a040972\n10.1086/280628\n10.1038/s41598-017-06166-3\n10.1111/j.1365-2656.2012.02025.x\n10.1111/eva.12948\n10.1016/j.cell.2011.02.013\n10.1016/j.biocon.2006.04.010\n10.1111/eva.12831\n10.1073/pnas.0711236105\n10.1038/nrc3712\n10.1098/rsos.180870\n10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-10-4577\n10.1016/S0966-842X(97)81772-6\n10.1021/j150111a004\n10.1016/B978-0-12-804310-3.00002-8\n10.1093/gbe/evy229\n10.1016/j.cub.2019.06.030\n10.1038/nrc2665\n10.1890/08-1763.1\n10.1038/nature18599\n10.1007/BF00123242\n10.3390/biom12010008\n10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2020.109347\n10.1186/s40249-022-00997-7\n10.1371/journal.ppat.1010033\n10.1086/physzool.27.3.30152164\n10.2307/2265613\n10.1007/s00018-019-03259-2\n10.1038/439549a\n10.1098/rsbl.2016.0553\n10.1073/pnas.1519691113\n10.1177/0300985815616444\n10.1007/s10393-007-0126-0\n10.1073/pnas.1810004115\n10.1073/pnas.1219920110\n10.1016/j.ccell.2018.03.013\n10.1126/science.abq6453\n10.3322/caac.21660\n10.1523/JNEUROSCI.20-12-04627.2000\n10.3390/pathogens11020241\n10.1016/j.meegid.2016.02.005\n10.1038/srep25093\n10.1038/s41586-021-04224-5\n10.1016/j.tree.2013.07.005\n10.1002/ecy.2613\n10.1111/ele.12776\n10.1073/pnas.0402795101",
    "title": "In vitro competition between two transmissible cancers and potential implications for their host, the Tasmanian devil.",
    "abstract": "The composition of ecological communities varies not only between different locations but also in time. Understanding the fundamental processes that drive species toward rarity or abundance is crucial to assessing ecosystem resilience and adaptation to changing environmental conditions. In plankton communities in particular, large temporal fluctuations in species abundances have been associated with chaotic dynamics. On the other hand, microbial diversity is overwhelmingly sustained by a \"rare biosphere\" of species with very low abundances. We consider here the possibility that interactions within a species-rich community can relate both phenomena. We use a Lotka-Volterra model with weak immigration and strong, disordered, and mostly competitive interactions between hundreds of species to bridge single-species temporal fluctuations and abundance distribution patterns. We highlight a generic chaotic regime where a few species at a time achieve dominance but are continuously overturned by the invasion of formerly rare species. We derive a focal-species model that captures the intermittent boom-and-bust dynamics that every species undergoes. Although species cannot be treated as effectively uncorrelated in their abundances, the community's effect on a focal species can nonetheless be described by a time-correlated noise characterized by a few effective parameters that can be estimated from time series. The model predicts a nonunitary exponent of the power-law abundance decay, which varies weakly with ecological parameters, consistent with observation in marine protist communities. The chaotic turnover regime is thus poised to capture relevant ecological features of species-rich microbial communities.",
    "title": "Chaotic turnover of rare and abundant species in a strongly interacting model community.",
    "abstract": "Unraveling the mechanisms governing the diversity of ecological communities is a central goal in ecology. Although microbial dispersal constitutes an important ecological process, the effect of dispersal on microbial diversity is poorly understood. Here, we sought to fill this gap by combining a generalized Lotka-Volterra model with experimental investigations. Our model showed that emigration increases the diversity of the community when the immigration rate crosses a defined threshold, which we identified as I",
    "title": "High immigration rates critical for establishing emigration-driven diversity in microbial communities.",
    "abstract": "The microbial community composition in the human gut has a profound effect on human health. This observation has lead to extensive use of microbiome therapies, including over-the-counter 'probiotic' treatments intended to alter the composition of the microbiome. Despite so much promise and commercial interest, the factors that contribute to the success or failure of microbiome-targeted treatments remain unclear. We investigate the biotic interactions that lead to successful engraftment of a novel bacterial strain introduced to the microbiome as in probiotic treatments. We use pairwise genome-scale metabolic modeling with a generalized resource allocation constraint to build a network of interactions between taxa that appear in an experimental engraftment study. We create induced sub-graphs using the taxa present in individual samples and assess the likelihood of invader engraftment based on network structure. To do so, we use a generalized Lotka-Volterra model, which we show has strong ability to predict if a particular invader or probiotic will successfully engraft into an individual's microbiome. Furthermore, we show that the mechanistic nature of the model is useful for revealing which microbe-microbe interactions potentially drive engraftment.",
    "title": "Metabolic model-based ecological modeling for probiotic design.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we studied the stability of traveling wave solutions of a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition model in the form of a coupled system of reaction diffusion equations with nonlocal intraspecific and interspecific competitions in space at times. First, the uniform upper bounds for the solutions of the model was proved. By using the anti-weighted method and the energy estimates, the asymptotic stability of traveling waves with large wave speeds of the system was established.",
    "title": "Stability of traveling wave solutions for a nonlocal Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Stochastically perturbed models, where the white noise type stochastic perturbations are proportional to the current system state, the most realistically describe real-life biosystems. However, such models essentially have no equilibrium states apart from one at the origin. This feature makes analysis of such models extremely difficult. Probably, the best result that can be found for such models is finding of accurate estimations of a region in the model phase space that serves as an attractor for model trajectories. In this paper, we consider a classical stochastically perturbed Lotka-Volterra model of competing or symbiotic populations, where the white noise type perturbations are proportional to the current system state. Using the direct Lyapunov method in a combination with a recently developed technique, we establish global asymptotic properties of this model. In order to do this, we, firstly, construct a Lyapunov function that is applicable to the both competing (and globally stable) and symbiotic deterministic Lotka-Volterra models. Then, applying this Lyapunov function to the stochastically perturbed model, we show that solutions with positive initial conditions converge to a certain compact region in the model phase space and oscillate around this region thereafter. The direct Lyapunov method allows to find estimates for this region. We also show that if the magnitude of the noise exceeds a certain critical level, then some or all species extinct via process of the stochastic stabilization ('stabilization by noise'). The approach applied in this paper allows to obtain necessary conditions for the extinction. Sufficient conditions for the extinction (that for this model occurs via the process that is known as the 'stochastic stabilization', or the 'stabilization by noise') are found applying the Khasminskii-type Lyapunov functions.",
    "title": "Asymptotic properties of the Lotka-Volterra competition and mutualism model under stochastic perturbations.",
    "abstract": "Beyond abiotic conditions, do population dynamics mostly depend on a species' direct predators, preys and conspecifics? Or can indirect feedback that ripples across the whole community be equally important? Determining where ecological communities sit on the spectrum between these two characterizations requires a metric able to capture the difference between them. Here we show that the spectral radius of a community's interaction matrix provides such a metric, thus a measure of ecological collectivity, which is accessible from imperfect knowledge of biotic interactions and related to observable signatures. This measure of collectivity integrates existing approaches to complexity, interaction structure and indirect interactions. Our work thus provides an original perspective on the question of to what degree communities are more than loose collections of species or simple interaction motifs and explains when pragmatic reductionist approaches ought to suffice or fail when applied to ecological communities.",
    "title": "How collectively integrated are ecological communities?",
    "abstract": "During the last decades, macroecology has identified broad-scale patterns of abundances and diversity of microbial communities and put forward some potential explanations for them. However, these advances are not paralleled by a full understanding of the dynamical processes behind them. In particular, abundance fluctuations of different species are found to be correlated, both across time and across communities in metagenomic samples. Reproducing such correlations through appropriate population models remains an open challenge. The present paper tackles this problem and points to sparse species interactions as a necessary mechanism to account for them. Specifically, we discuss several possibilities to include interactions in population models and recognize Lotka-Volterra constants as a successful ansatz. For this, we design a Bayesian inference algorithm to extract sets of interaction constants able to reproduce empirical probability distributions of pairwise correlations for diverse biomes. Importantly, the inferred models still reproduce well-known single-species macroecological patterns concerning abundance fluctuations across both species and communities. Endorsed by the agreement with the empirically observed phenomenology, our analyses provide insights into the properties of the networks of microbial interactions, revealing that sparsity is a crucial feature.",
    "title": "Sparse species interactions reproduce abundance correlation patterns in microbial communities.",
    "abstract": "We explore model-form error and how to correct it in systems of ordinary differential equations. In particular, we focus on the Lotka-Volterra equations, which are used broadly in fields such as ecology, biology, economics, chemistry, and physics. Accounting for every object and their complex interactions with a complete model often becomes infeasible, thereby requiring reduced models. However, reduced models may omit vital relationships, resulting in discrepancies between reduced model predictions and observations from the true system. In this work, we propose a model correction framework for decreasing such discrepancies. Specifically, we embed a stochastic enrichment operator into the reduced model's system of equations. The enrichment operator is theory-informed, calibrated with observations from the complete model, and extended to extrapolative combinations of parameters and initial conditions. The complete model involves N species, while the reduced and enriched models only track M<N species. Numerical results show the enriched models significantly decrease discrepancies, consistently predict equilibria, and improve the species' transient behavior.",
    "title": "Stochastic model corrections for reduced Lotka-Volterra models exhibiting mutual, commensal, competitive, and predatory interactions.",
    "abstract": "Tree growth is the consequence of developmental interactions between above- and below-ground compartments. However, a comprehensive view of the genetic architecture of growth as a cohesive whole is poorly understood. We propose a systems biology approach for mapping growth trajectories in genome-wide association studies viewing growth as a complex (phenotypic) system in which above- and below-ground components (or traits) interact with each other to mediate systems behavior. We further assume that trait-trait interactions are controlled by a genetic system composed of many different interactive genes and integrate the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model to dissect phenotypic and genetic systems into pleiotropic and epistatic interaction components by which the detailed genetic mechanism of above- and below-ground co-growth can be charted. We apply the approach to analyze linkage mapping data of ",
    "title": "Genome-Wide Network Analysis of Above- and Below-Ground Co-growth in ",
    "abstract": "Communities worldwide are losing multiple species at an unprecedented rate, but how communities reassemble after these losses is often an open question. It is well established that the order and timing of species arrival during community assembly shapes forthcoming community composition and function. Yet, whether the order and timing of species losses can lead to divergent community trajectories remains largely unexplored. Here, we propose a novel framework that sets testable hypotheses on the effects of the order and timing of species losses-inverse priority effects-and suggests its integration into the study of community assembly. We propose that the order and timing of species losses within a community can generate alternative reassembly trajectories, and suggest mechanisms that may underlie these inverse priority effects. To formalize these concepts quantitatively, we used a three-species Lotka-Volterra competition model, enabling to investigate conditions in which the order of species losses can lead to divergent reassembly trajectories. The inverse priority effects framework proposed here promotes the systematic study of the dynamics of species losses from ecological communities, ultimately aimed to better understand community reassembly and guide management decisions in light of rapid global change.",
    "title": "Inverse priority effects: A role for historical contingency during species losses.",
    "abstract": "Streams may have many branches and form complex river networks. We investigate two competition patch models associated with two different river network modules, where one is a distributary stream with two branches at the downstream end, and the other is a tributary stream with two branches at the upstream end. Treating one species as resident species and the other one as mutant species, it is shown that, for each model, there exists a invasion curve such that the mutant species can invade when rare if and only if its dispersal strategy is below this curve, but the shapes of the invasion curves are different. Moreover, we show that the global dynamics of the two models can be similar or different depending on river networks. Especially, if the drift rates of the two species are equal, then the global dynamics are similar for small drift rate and different for large drift rate. Our results also confirm a conjecture in Jiang et al. (Bull Math Biol 82:131, 2020).",
    "title": "Dynamics of Lotka-Volterra Competition Patch Models in Streams with Two Branches.",
    "abstract": "Mutualistic interactions, such as plant-mycorrhizal or plant-pollinator interactions, are widespread in ecological communities and frequently exploited by cheaters, species that profit from interactions without providing benefits in return. Cheating usually negatively affects the fitness of the individuals that are cheated on, but the effects of cheating at the community level remains poorly understood. Here, we describe 2 different kinds of cheating in mutualistic networks and use a generalized Lotka-Volterra model to show that they have very different consequences for the persistence of the community. Conservative cheating, where a species cheats on its mutualistic partners to escape the cost of mutualistic interactions, negatively affects community persistence. In contrast, innovative cheating occurs with species with whom legitimate interactions are not possible, because of a physiological or morphological barrier. Innovative cheating can enhance community persistence under some conditions: when cheaters have few mutualistic partners, cheat at low or intermediate frequency and the cost associated with mutualism is not too high. Under these conditions, the negative effects of cheating on partner persistence are overcompensated at the community level by the positive feedback loops that arise in diverse mutualistic communities. Using an empirical dataset of plant-bird interactions (hummingbirds and flowerpiercers), we found that observed cheating patterns are highly consistent with theoretical cheating patterns found to increase community persistence. This result suggests that the cheating patterns observed in nature could contribute to promote species coexistence in mutualistic communities, instead of necessarily destabilizing them.",
    "title": "When cheating turns into a stabilizing mechanism of plant-pollinator communities.",
    "abstract": "Inter- and intraspecific competition is most important during the immature life stage for many species of interest, such as multiple coexisting mosquito species that act as vectors of diseases. Mortality caused by competition that occurs during maturation is explicitly modelled in some alternative formulations of the Lotka-Volterra competition model. We generalise this approach by using a distributed delay for maturation time. The kernel of the distributed delay is represented by a truncated Erlang distribution. The shape and rate of the distribution, as well as the position of the truncation, are found to determine the solution at equilibrium. The resulting system of delay differential equations is transformed into a system of ordinary differential equations using the linear chain approximation. Numerical solutions are provided to demonstrate cases where competitive exclusion and coexistence occur. Stability conditions are determined using the nullclines method and local stability analysis. The introduction of a distributed delay promotes coexistence and survival of the species compared to the limiting case of a discrete delay, potentially affecting management of relevant pests and threatened species.",
    "title": "Coexistence in two-species competition with delayed maturation.",
    "abstract": "We studied trend models for the energy and electricity markets and compared their complexity. Was it associated to the ease of policy interventions to control these markets? Using open data, we applied Lotka-Volterra type models to describe the evolution of the market shares of renewable energy and of electricity from renewable sources and observed that for the latter data more complex models were needed. We then searched for characteristics and anomalies in these models that might indicate immunity to and susceptibility for policy interventions towards reaching carbon neutrality, respectively. However, the evidence linking complexity and receptiveness for policy interventions remained weak.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra models for the market penetration of renewable energy.",
    "abstract": "The gut microbiota is a community of high complexity; its composition changes due to ecological interactions, these are studied to understand the relationship with the human health. External stimuli like the administration of probiotics, prebiotics, or drugs are known to modify these interactions. The high complexity of microbiota composition can be studied by considering pairwise interactions. Pairwise interactions in bacterial communities consider each species' directionality and impact on one another, e.g., commensalism (unidirectional positive interaction) or competition (bidirectional negative interaction). These interactions can either be interspecies or intraspecies. The Lotka-Volterra (LV) model has been implemented to characterize these bacteria interactions, considering the ecological relationship among the different species presented. One of the main challenges is determining the specific interaction parameters in LV structure from experimental data. This study implemented a novel approach based on the sparse identification of nonlinear dynamic method (SINDy). One of the assumptions in SINDy method implies the knowledge of the data derivative structure. To fulfill this requirement, a differential neural network algorithm was implemented. We assessed the performance of this approach considering both a simulated and experimental interspecies scenario. A two-species bacterial LV model was simulated in the initial validation stage, and the resulting kinetic growth data was recorded. This data was utilized for training a differential neural network algorithm, which was used to derive a time-derivative structure for the dataset. After this step, SINDy method was implemented to calculate the interaction parameters. Three conditions were evaluated in intraspecies competition, obtaining an average identification parametric error of less than 2%. For experimental data, parametric analysis results are sensitive to detect the influence of a drug presence over the intraspecies interaction with a reduction of 50% in its typical values.Clinical Relevance- In this study, we devised a strategy to determine how two species of the human gastrointestinal microbiota interact and the impact of drug administration on these interactions.",
    "title": "Modeling bacteria pairwise interactions in human microbiota by Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics (SINDy)",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of two-plant competitive models have been widely studied, while the effect of chemical heterogeneity on competitive plants is rarely explored. In this study, a model that explicitly incorporates light and total phosphorus in the system is formulated to characterize the impacts of limited carbon and phosphorus on the dynamics of the two-plant competition system. The dissipativity, existence and stability of boundary equilibria and coexistence equilibrium are proved, when the two plants compete for light equally. Our simulations indicate that, with equal competition for light ($ b_{12} = b_{21} $) and a fixed total phosphorus in the system ($ T $), plants can coexist with moderate light intensity ($ K $). A higher $ K $ tends to favor the plant with a lower phosphorus loss rate ($ d_1 $ vs $ d_2 $). When $ K $ is held constant, a moderate level of $ T $ leads to the dominance of the plant with a lower phosphorus loss rate ($ d_1 $ vs $ d_2 $). At high $ T $ levels, both plants can coexist. Moreover, our numerical analysis also shows that, when the competition for light is not equal, the low level of total phosphorus in the system may lead the model to be unstable and have more types of bistability compared with the two-dimensional Lotka-Volterra competition model.",
    "title": "Dynamics of competition model between two plants based on stoichiometry.",
    "abstract": "Interspecies interactions are a crucial driving force of species evolution. The genes of each coexisting species play a pivotal role in shaping the structure and function within the community, but how to identify them at the genome-wide level has always been challenging.\nIn this study, we embed the Lotka-Volterra ordinary differential equations in the theory of community ecology into the systems mapping model, so that this model can not only describe how the quantitative trait loci (QTL) of a species directly affects its own phenotype, but also describe the QTL of the species how to indirectly affect the phenotype of its interacting species, and how QTL from different species affects community behavior through epistatic interactions.\nBy designing and implementing a co-culture experiment for 100 pairs of \nBy dividing the overall growth into independent growth and interactive growth, we could estimate how QTLs modulate interspecific competition and cooperation. Based on the quantitative genetic model, we can obtain the direct genetic effect, indirect genetic effect, and genome-genome epistatic effect related to interspecific interaction genes, and then further mine the hub genes in the QTL networks, which will be particularly useful for inferring and predicting the genetic mechanisms of community dynamics and evolution. Systems mapping can provide a tool for studying the mechanism of competition and cooperation among bacteria in co-culture, and this framework can lay the foundation for a more comprehensive and systematic study of species interactions.",
    "title": "Competition-cooperation mechanism between ",
    "abstract": "Heteroclinic networks are a mathematical concept in dynamic systems theory that is suited to describe metastable states and switching events in brain dynamics. The framework is sensitive to external input and, at the same time, reproducible and robust against perturbations. Solutions of the corresponding differential equations are spatiotemporal patterns that are supposed to encode information both in space and time coordinates. We focus on the concept of winnerless competition as realized in generalized Lotka-Volterra equations and report on results for binding and chunking dynamics, synchronization on spatial grids, and entrainment to heteroclinic motion. We summarize proposals of how to design heteroclinic networks as desired in view of reproducing experimental observations from neuronal networks and discuss the subtle role of noise. The review is on a phenomenological level with possible applications to brain dynamics, while we refer to the literature for a rigorous mathematical treatment. We conclude with promising perspectives for future research.",
    "title": "Heteroclinic networks for brain dynamics.",
    "abstract": "This study focuses on developing a mathematical model to assess interaction among acidogenic bacteria during the anaerobic degradation of two substrates. Clostridium cadaveris and Clostridium sporogenes were cultured in various combinations with glucose and peptone. Parameter estimates are given for both conventional Monod parameters from single substrate-single species cultures and sum kinetics with interaction parameters obtained from dual substrate-single species cultures. The presence of multiple substrates led to both inhibitory and enhancing effects on biodegradation rates for dual substrates compared to single substrate cultures. A new model of interspecies interaction was developed within the framework of Lotka-Volterra incorporating substrate interaction parameters, with a focus on accuracy, realism, simplicity, and biological significance. The model demonstrated competitive interaction for resource sharing and the additional non-linearity parameter eliminated the constraint of the linear relationship between growth rate and population density.",
    "title": "Modeling interactions of Clostridium cadaveris and Clostridium sporogenes in anaerobic acidogenesis of glucose and peptone.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of ecological communities in nature are typically characterized by probabilistic processes involving invasion dynamics. Because of technical challenges, however, the majority of theoretical and experimental studies have focused on coexistence dynamics. Therefore, it has become central to understand the extent to which coexistence outcomes can be used to predict analogous invasion outcomes relevant to systems in nature. Here, we study the limits to this predictability under a geometric and probabilistic Lotka-Volterra framework. We show that while individual survival probability in coexistence dynamics can be fairly closely translated into invader colonization probability in invasion dynamics, the translation is less precise between community persistence and community augmentation, and worse between exclusion probability and replacement probability. These results provide a guiding and testable theoretical framework regarding the translatability of outcomes between coexistence and invasion outcomes when communities are represented by Lotka-Volterra dynamics under environmental uncertainty.",
    "title": "On the limits to invasion prediction using coexistence outcomes.",
    "abstract": "We explore the concept of emergent quantum-like theory in complex adaptive systems, and examine in particular the concrete example of such an emergent (or \"mock\") quantum theory in the Lotka-Volterra system. In general, we investigate the possibility of implementing the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics on classical systems, and what would be the conditions for using such an approach. We start from a standard description of a classical system via Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) equation and reduce it to an effective Schr\\\"odinger-type equation, with a (mock) Planck constant $\\mockbar$, which is system-dependent. The condition for this is that the so-called quantum potential VQ, which is state-dependent, is cancelled out by some additional term in the HJ equation. We consider this additional term to provide for the coupling of the classical system under consideration to the \"environment.\" We assume that a classical system could cancel out the VQ term (at least approximately) by fine tuning to the environment. This might provide a mechanism for establishing a stable, stationary states in (complex) adaptive systems, such as biological systems. In this context we emphasize the state dependent nature of the mock quantum dynamics and we also introduce the new concept of the mock quantum, state dependent, statistical field theory. We also discuss some universal features of the quantum-to-classical as well as the mock-quantum-to-classical transition found in the turbulent phase of the hydrodynamic formulation of our proposal. In this way we reframe the concept of decoherence into the concept of \"quantum turbulence,\" i.e. that the transition between quantum and classical could be defined in analogy to the transition from laminar to turbulent flow in hydrodynamics.",
    "title": "On the Emergent \"Quantum\" Theory in Complex Adaptive Systems.",
    "abstract": "Microbial communities are important drivers of plant litter decomposition; however, the mechanisms of microbial co-occurrence networks and their network interaction dynamics in response to climate warming in wetlands remain unclear. Here, we conducted a 1.5-year warming experiment on the bacterial and fungal communities involved in litter decomposition in a typical wetland. The results showed that warming accelerated the decomposition of litter and had a greater effect on the diversity of bacteria than on that of fungi. Dominant bacterial communities, such as Bacteroidia, Alphaproteobacteria, and Actinobacteria, and dominant fungal communities, such as Leotiomycetes and Sordariomycetes, showed significant positive correlations with lignin and cellulose. Co-occurrence networks revealed that the average path length and betweenness centrality under warming conditions increased in the bacterial community but decreased in the fungal community. Both bacterial and fungal networks in the 2.0\u00a0\u00b0C warming treatment had the highest ratio of positive links (58.53\u00a0% and 98.14\u00a0%), indicating that moderate warming can promote the positive correlations and symbiotic relationships observed in the microbial community. This also suggests that small-world characteristics and weak-link advantages accelerate diffusion, and scale-free features facilitate propagation in microbial communities in response to climate warming. Logistic growth and Lotka-Volterra competition models revealed that climate warming enhances microbial network complexity mainly by increasing bacterial diversity and fungal interaction strength in litter decomposition. However, the symbiotic relationship decreased slightly under 4.0\u00a0\u00b0C warming, indicating that climate warming is a random attack rather than a targeted attack, and the microbial network has strong resistance to random attack, as shown by the highly robust dynamic performance of the microbial network in litter decomposition. Overall, the microbial community in litter decomposition responded to climate warming and shifted its network interactions, leading to further changes in emergent network topology and dynamics, thus accelerating litter decomposition in wetlands.",
    "title": "Climate warming enhances microbial network complexity by increasing bacterial diversity and fungal interaction strength in litter decomposition.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra competition model (LVCM) is a fundamental tool for ecology, widely used to represent complex communities. The Allee effect (AE) is a phenomenon in which there is a positive correlation between population density and fitness, at low population densities. However, the interplay between the LVCM and AE has been seldom analyzed in multispecies models. Here, we analyze the mathematical properties of the LVCM [Formula: see text] AE, investigating the coexistence of species interacting through neutral diffuse competition, their equilibria and stable points. Minimum viable population density arises as the threshold below which species go extinct, characteristic of strong Allee effects. Then, by imposing relationships of main parameters to body size, i.e. allometric scaling, we derive a general solution to the size-scaling maximum and minimum expected density under plausible scenarios. The scaling of maximum population density is consistent with the literature, but we also provide novel predictions on the scaling of the lower limit to population density, a critical value for conservation science. The resulting framework is general and yields results that increase our current understanding of how complex demographic processes can be linked to ubiquitous ecological patterns.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra model with Allee effect: equilibria, coexistence and size scaling of maximum and minimum abundance.",
    "abstract": "Industrial ecology (IE) is the process of constructing industrial-ecological systems (IES) with the realization of the mutual benefits for industrial system (IS) and ecological system (ES). Therefore, the IE level depends on the IES development and the relationship between IS and ES. This paper calculated the development index of ES and IS to account for IES development and adopted the grey Lotka-Volterra to analyze the relationship between IS and ES. Choosing the \u03c0-shaped curve area in the Yellow River basin of China as the study area, this paper analyzed its IE level and influence factors from 2005 to 2019. Findings include: (1) The development level of IES in the Area presented significant spatial differentiation and could be classified into three levels. (2) IS and ES remained in the stage of isolated development or mutual restriction. (3) IE was found to be positively correlated with scientific innovation, economic development, openness degree, pollution control, and industrial structure while negatively correlated with urbanization, resource consumption, and government influence.",
    "title": "Evaluation of industrial ecology in the \u03c0-shaped curve area of China's Yellow River based on the grey Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "We study the impact of an age-dependent interaction in a structured predator-prey model. We present two approaches, the PDE (partial differential equation) and the renewal equation, highlighting the advantages of each one. We develop efficient numerical methods to compute the (un)stability of steady-states and the time-evolution of the interacting populations, in the form of oscillating orbits in the plane of prey birth-rate and predator population size. The asymptotic behavior when species interaction does not depend on age is completely determined through the age-profile and a predator-prey limit system of ODEs (ordinary differential equations). The appearance of a Hopf bifurcation is shown for a biologically meaningful age-dependent interaction, where the system transitions from a stable coexistence equilibrium to a collection of periodic orbits around it, and eventually to a stable limit cycle (isolated periodic orbit). Several explicit analytical solutions are used to test the accuracy of the proposed computational methods.",
    "title": "Numerical approach to an age-structured Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Traditionally, multispecies consisting of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts collaboratively engage sourdough fermentation, which determines the quality of the resulting baked goods. Nonetheless, the successive transfer of these microbial communities can result in undesirable community dynamics that prevent the formation of high-quality sourdough bread. Thus, a mechanistic understanding of the community dynamics is fundamental to engineer sourdough complex fermentation. This study describes the population dynamics of five species of lactic acid bacteria-yeast communities ",
    "title": "Cyclic pairwise interaction representing a rock-paper-scissors game maintains the population of the vulnerable yeast ",
    "abstract": "We study communities emerging from generalized random Lotka-Volterra dynamics with a large number of species with interactions determined by the degree of niche overlap. Each species is endowed with a number of traits, and competition between pairs of species increases with their similarity in trait space. This leads to a model with random Hopfield-like interactions. We use tools from the theory of disordered systems, notably dynamic mean-field theory, to characterize the statistics of the resulting communities at stable fixed points and determine analytically when stability breaks down. Two distinct types of transition are identified in this way, both marked by diverging abundances but differing in the behavior of the integrated response function. At fixed points only a fraction of the initial pool of species survives. We numerically study the eigenvalue spectra of the interaction matrix between extant species. We find evidence that the two types of dynamical transition are, respectively, associated with the bulk spectrum or an outlier eigenvalue crossing into the right half of the complex plane.",
    "title": "Niche overlap and Hopfield-like interactions in generalized random Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "The assumption of constant population size is central in population genetics. It led to a large body of results that is robust to modeling choices and that has proven successful to understand evolutionary dynamics. In reality, allele frequencies and population size are both determined by the interaction between a population and the environment. Relaxing the constant-population assumption has two big drawbacks. It increases the technical difficulty of the analysis, and it requires specifying a mechanism for the saturation of the population size, possibly making the results contingent on model details. Here we develop a framework that encompasses a great variety of systems with an arbitrary mechanism for population growth limitation. By using techniques based on scale separation for stochastic processes, we are able to calculate analytically properties of evolutionary trajectories, such as the fixation probability. Remarkably, these properties assume a universal form with respect to our framework, which depends on only three parameters related to the intergeneration timescale, the invasion fitness, and the carrying capacity of the strains. In other words, different systems, such as Lotka-Volterra or a chemostat model (contained in our framework), share the same evolutionary outcomes after a proper remapping of their parameters. An important and surprising consequence of our results is that the direction of selection can be inverted, with a population evolving to reach lower values of invasion fitness.",
    "title": "Universality of evolutionary trajectories under arbitrary forms of self-limitation and competition.",
    "abstract": "A decision model is developed by adopting two control techniques, combining cultural methods and pesticides in a hybrid approach. To control the adverse effects in the long term and to be able to evaluate the extensive use of pesticides on the environment and nearby ecosystems, the novel decision model assumes the use of pesticides only in an emergency situation. We, therefore, formulate a rice-pest-control model by rigorously modelling a rice-pest system and including the decision model and control techniques. The model is then extended to become an optimal control system with an objective function that minimizes the annual losses of rice by controlling insect pest infestations and simultaneously reduce the adverse impacts of pesticides on the environment and nearby ecosystems. This rice-pest-control model is verified by analysis, obtains the necessary conditions for optimality, and confirms our main results numerically. The rice-pest system is verified by stability analysis at equilibrium points and shows transcritical bifurcations indicative of acceptable thresholds for insect pests to demonstrate the pest control strategy.",
    "title": "Dynamic analysis and control of a rice-pest system under transcritical bifurcations.",
    "abstract": "Human-induced extinction and rapid ecological changes require the development of techniques that can help avoid extinction of endangered species. The most used strategy to avoid extinction is reintroduction of the endangered species, but only 31% of these attempts are successful and they require up to 15 years for their results to be evaluated. In this research, we propose a novel strategy that improves the chances of survival of endangered predators, like lynx, by controlling only the availability of prey. To simulate the prey-predator relationship we used a Lotka-Volterra model to analyze the effects of varying prey availability on the size of the predator population. We calculate the number of prey necessary to support the predator population using a high-order sliding mode control (HOSMC) that maintains the predator population at the desired level. In the wild, nature introduces significant and complex uncertainties that affect species' survival. This complexity suggests that HOSMC is a good choice of controller because it is robust to variability and does not require prior knowledge of system parameters. These parameters can also be time varying. The output measurement required by the HOSMC is the number of predators. It can be obtained using continuous monitoring of environmental DNA that measures the number of lynxes and prey in a specific geographic area. The controller efficiency in the presence of these parametric uncertainties was demonstrated with a numerical simulation, where random perturbations were forced in all four model parameters at each simulation step, and the controller provides the specific prey input that will maintain the predator population. The simulation demonstrates how HOSMC can increase and maintain an endangered population (lynx) in just 21-26 months by regulating the food supply (hares), with an acceptable maximal steady-state error of 3%.",
    "title": "High order sliding mode control for restoration of a population of predators in a Lotka-Volterra system.",
    "abstract": "We introduce the Weak-form Estimation of Nonlinear Dynamics (WENDy) method for estimating model parameters for non-linear systems of ODEs. Without relying on any numerical differential equation solvers, WENDy computes accurate estimates and is robust to large (biologically relevant) levels of measurement noise. For low dimensional systems with modest amounts of data, WENDy is competitive with conventional forward solver-based nonlinear least squares methods in terms of speed and accuracy. For both higher dimensional systems and stiff systems, WENDy is typically both faster (often by orders of magnitude) and more accurate than forward solver-based approaches. The core mathematical idea involves an efficient conversion of the strong form representation of a model to its weak form, and then solving a regression problem to perform parameter inference. The core statistical idea rests on the Errors-In-Variables framework, which necessitates the use of the iteratively reweighted least squares algorithm. Further improvements are obtained by using orthonormal test functions, created from a set of [Formula: see text] bump functions of varying support sizes.We demonstrate the high robustness and computational efficiency by applying WENDy to estimate parameters in some common models from population biology, neuroscience, and biochemistry, including logistic growth, Lotka-Volterra, FitzHugh-Nagumo, Hindmarsh-Rose, and a Protein Transduction Benchmark model. Software and code for reproducing the examples is available at https://github.com/MathBioCU/WENDy .",
    "title": "Direct Estimation of Parameters in ODE Models Using WENDy: Weak-Form Estimation of Nonlinear Dynamics.",
    "abstract": "The high tree diversity in tropical forests has long been a puzzle to ecologists. In the 1970s, Janzen and Connell proposed that tree species (hosts) coexist due to the stabilizing actions of specialized enemies. This Janzen-Connell hypothesis was subsequently supported by theoretical studies. Yet, such studies have taken the presence of specialized pathogens for granted, overlooking that pathogen coexistence also requires an explanation. Moreover, stable ecological coexistence does not necessarily imply evolutionary stability. What are the conditions that allow Janzen-Connell effects to evolve? We link theory from community ecology, evolutionary biology and epidemiology to tackle this question, structuring our approach around five theoretical frameworks. Phenomenological Lotka-Volterra competition models provide the most basic framework, which can be restructured to include (single- or multi-)pathogen dynamics. This ecological foundation can be extended to include pathogen evolution. Hosts, of course, may also evolve, and we introduce a coevolutionary model, showing that host-pathogen coevolution can lead to highly diverse systems. Our work unpacks the assumptions underpinning Janzen-Connell and places theoretical bounds on pathogen and host ecology and evolution. The five theoretical frameworks taken together provide a stronger theoretical basis for Janzen-Connell, delivering a wider lens that can yield important insights into the maintenance of diversity in these increasingly threatened systems.",
    "title": "Closing the gap in the Janzen-Connell hypothesis: What determines pathogen diversity?",
    "abstract": "The gut microbiome plays a pivotal role in the human body, and perturbations in its composition have been linked to various disorders. Stability is an essential property of a healthy human gut microbiome, which allows it to maintain its functional richness under the external influences. This property has been explored through two distinct methodologies - mathematical modelling based on ecological principles and statistical analysis drawn from observations in interventional studies. Here we conducted a meta-analysis aimed to compare the two approaches utilising the data from 9 interventional and time series studies encompassing 3512 gut microbiome profiles obtained via 16S rRNA gene sequencing. By employing the previously published compositional Lotka-Volterra method, we modelled the dynamics of the microbial community and evaluated ecological stability measures. These measures were compared to those based on observed microbiome changes. There was a substantial correlation between the outcomes of the two approaches. Particularly, local stability assessed within the ecological paradigm was positively correlated with observational stability measures accounting for the compositional nature of microbiome data. Additionally, we were able to reproduce the previously reported inverse relationship between the community's robustness to microorganism loss and local stability, attributed to the distinct impacts of coefficient characterising the network decomposition on these two stability assessments. Our findings demonstrate harmonisation between the ecological and observational approaches to microbiome analysis, advancing the understanding of healthy gut microbiome concept. This paves the way to develop efficient microbiome-targeting interventions for disease prevention and treatment.",
    "title": "Stability of human gut microbiome: Comparison of ecological modelling and observational approaches.",
    "abstract": "Our earlier work in Nguyen et al. (Maximizing metapopulation growth rate and biomass in stream networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.05555 , 2023) shows that concentrating resources on the upstream end tends to maximize the total biomass in a metapopulation model for a stream species. In this paper, we continue our research direction by further considering a Lotka-Volterra competition patch model for two stream species. We show that the species whose resource allocations maximize the total biomass has the competitive advantage.",
    "title": "Impact of resource distributions on the competition of species in stream environment.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we propose a modified Lotka-Volterra competition model under climate change, which incorporates both spatial and temporal nonlocal effect. First, the theoretical analyses for forced waves of the model are performed, and the existence of the forced waves is proved by using the cross-iteration scheme combining with appropriate upper and lower solutions. Second, the asymptotic behaviors of the forced waves are derived by using the linearization and limiting method, and we find that the asymptotic behaviors of forced waves are mainly determined by the leading equations. In addition, some typical numerical examples are provided to illustrate the analytical results. By choosing three kinds of different kernel functions, it is found that the forced waves can be both monotonic and non-monotonic.",
    "title": "Forced waves and their asymptotic behaviors in a Lotka-Volterra competition model with spatio-temporal nonlocal effect under climate change.",
    "abstract": "While community synchrony is a key framework for predicting ecological constancy, the interplay between community synchrony and ecological invasions remains unclear. Yet the degree of synchrony in a resident community may influence its resistance and resilience to the introduction of an invasive species. Here we used a generalizable mathematical framework, constructed with a modified Lotka-Volterra competition model, to first simulate resident communities across a range of competitive strengths and species' responses to environmental fluctuations, which yielded communities that ranged from strongly synchronous to compensatory. We then invaded these communities at different timesteps with invaders of varying demographic traits, after which we quantified the resident community's susceptibility to initial invasion attempts (resistance) and the degree to which community synchrony was altered after invasion (resiliency of synchrony). We found that synchronous communities were not only more resistant but also more resilient to invasion than compensatory communities, likely due to stronger competition between resident species and thus lower cumulative abundances in compensatory communities, providing greater opportunities for invasion. The growth rate of the invader was most influenced by the resident and invader competition coefficients and the growth rate of the invader species. Our findings support prioritizing the conservation of compensatory and weakly synchronous communities which may be at increased risk of invasion.",
    "title": "Resistance and resilience to invasion is stronger in synchronous than compensatory communities.",
    "abstract": "Tumors develop in a complex physical, biochemical, and cellular milieu, referred to as the tumor microenvironment. Of special interest is the set of immune cells that reciprocally interact with the tumor, the tumor-immune microenvironment (TIME). The diversity of cell types and cell-cell interactions in the TIME has led researchers to apply concepts from ecology to describe the dynamics. However, while tumor cells are known to induce immune cells to switch from anti-tumor to pro-tumor phenotypes, this type of ecological interaction has been largely overlooked. To address this gap in cancer modeling, we develop a minimal, ecological model of the TIME with immune cell conversion, to highlight this important interaction and explore its consequences. A key finding is that immune conversion increases the range of parameters supporting a co-existence phase in which the immune system and the tumor reach a stalemate. Our results suggest that further investigation of the consequences of immune cell conversion, using detailed, data-driven models, will be critical for greater understanding of TIME dynamics.",
    "title": "Modeling the Role of Immune Cell Conversion in the Tumor-Immune Microenvironment.",
    "abstract": "AbstractAgricultural pests are increasingly appreciated as subjects of ecology. One particular case, a pest in coffee production, is analyzed here using the conceptual framework of complex systems, increasingly acknowledged as having an obvious home in the field of ecology, notorious for its complex structures. The particular case analyzed here arguably falls under the control of the complexity of the ecological system rather than of a simple magic bullet of population regulation. The system, which has been under study in southern Mexico for the past quarter century, is analyzed through the lens of neutral oscillations of the classical nondissipative Lotka-Volterra system. Based on three consumer/resource pairs (populations of [1] an ant, [2] a scale insect, [3] a beetle predator of the scale insect, [4] a fungal pathogen of the scale insect, and [5] a fly parasitoid of the ant), this five-dimensional system is well known qualitatively. Coupling all agents through both direct effects and trait-mediated indirect effects, the behavior of the neutral oscillation form of the system reveals a complex set of behaviors, including harmonized invariant sets, chaos, and/or quasiperiodicity. Such behaviors are well-known subjects in the science of complex systems and, it is argued, are ultimately sufficient to effect a degree of regulation on the pest, independent of explicit density-dependent feedback. Control of the system is thus seen as arguably actuated through its complexity, independent of any classic dissipative force.",
    "title": "Coupled Oscillators in an Agroecosystem: Integrating Direct and Indirect Effects.",
    "abstract": "We consider the impact of strong biological correlations on the epidemic process. The biological correlations mean the influence of the environment on the individual state of immunity of the infected person. Accounting for the correlations turns the traditional SIRS model into the 3D Lotka-Volterra model, the parameters of which are uniquely determined by the parameters of the original SIRS model. The measure of the biological correlations in the epidemic is the correlation strength parameter [Formula: see text], where [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] are the duration of the infectious period of the disease and the duration of immunity, respectively, both measured in years. If the epidemic is highly correlated ([Formula: see text]), then after the first epidemic outbreak, subsequent oscillations occur, the period [Formula: see text] of which is less than one year. The example is the COVID-19 pandemic. If the epidemic is weakly correlated ([Formula: see text]), the period [Formula: see text] of the oscillations is more than one year. Then in the presence of regular annual outbreaks the oscillations do not have time to manifest themselves. The examples are the ordinary flu annual epidemics. In the absence of the annual epidemic factor, the oscillations can exist and persist regardless of the [Formula: see text] value. The examples are the measles epidemics. The 3D Lotka-Volterra model makes it possible to predict the period [Formula: see text] of the future oscillations based on two known clinical parameters-[Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text]. This period turns out to be equal to 2\u03c0 multiplied by the geometric mean of the duration of the infectious period of the disease [Formula: see text] and the duration of immunity [Formula: see text]. The adequacy of the 3D Lotka-Volterra model is supported by examples of the 2017-2019 annual flu epidemics and the 2020-2022 COVID-19 epidemic in Israel, as well as the succession of measles epidemics in the UK between 1940 and 1970.",
    "title": "Strong biological correlations as a cause of autonomous oscillations in epidemics.",
    "abstract": "An integrable Hamiltonian variant of the two species Lotka-Volterra (LV) predator-prey model, shortly referred to as geometric mean (GM) predator-prey model, has been recently introduced. Here, we perform a systematic comparison of the dynamics underlying the GM and LV models. Though the two models share several common features, the geometric mean dynamics exhibits a few peculiarities of interest. The structure of the scaled-population variables reduces to the simple harmonic oscillator with dimensionless natural time TGM varying as \u03c9GMt with \u03c9GM=c12c21. We found that the natural timescales of the evolution dynamics are amplified in the GM model compared to the LV one. Since the GM dynamics is ruled by the inter-species rather than the intra-species coefficients, the proposed model might be of interest when the interactions among the species, rather than the individual demography, rule the evolution of the ecosystems.",
    "title": "Quantifying population dynamics via a geometric mean predator-prey model.",
    "abstract": "AbstractSpecies interact in landscapes where environmental conditions vary in time and space. This variability impacts how species select habitat patches. Under equilibrium conditions, evolution of this patch selection can result in ideal free distributions where per capita growth rates are zero in occupied patches and negative in unoccupied patches. These ideal free distributions, however, do not explain why species occupy sink patches, why competitors have overlapping spatial ranges, or why predators avoid highly productive patches. To understand these patterns, we solve for coevolutionarily stable strategies (coESSs) of patch selection for multispecies stochastic Lotka-Volterra models accounting for spatial and temporal heterogeneity. In occupied patches at the coESS, we show that the differences between the local contributions to the mean and the variance of the long-term population growth rate are equalized. Applying this characterization to models of antagonistic interactions reveals that environmental stochasticity can partially exorcize the ghost of competition past, select for new forms of enemy-free and victimless space, and generate hydra effects over evolutionary timescales. Viewing our results through the economic lens of modern portfolio theory highlights why the coESS for patch selection is often a bet-hedging strategy coupling stochastic sink populations. Our results highlight how environmental stochasticity can reverse or amplify evolutionary outcomes as a result of species interactions or spatial heterogeneity.",
    "title": "Coevolution of Patch Selection in Stochastic Environments.",
    "abstract": "Aerobic compost is an effective method for the treatment of livestock manure, which is usually accompanied by complex interspecific competition. Describing these competitive relationships through mathematical models can help understand the interaction of microorganisms and analyze the effect of exogenous additive to regulate the composting process. The common model for analyzing competition problem is the Lotka-Volterra model. However, the fixed parameters of the Lotka-Volterra model are not suitable to reflect the dynamic variations of the competitive relationship when the environmental conditions change during composting process. Therefore, this paper establishes a novel fractional grey unequal-interval time-varying Lotka-Volterra model. Firstly, a fractional grey derivate operator is proposed on the basis of the unequal interval of composting data and historical dependence of microbial growth. Secondly, considering the influence of temperature, a time-varying parameter matrix is defined to reflect the variation of competitive relationship at different composting phases, and it is estimated by forgetting factor recursive least squares. Thirdly, the optimal coefficients are optimized by grey prediction evolution algorithm. Finally, the proposed model is employed to analyze the chicken manure composting experiment. The results show that the proposed model has lower error criteria and more accurate trend of fitting curve than the other five existing models. The parameter matrix describes the dynamical variation of microbial competitive relationship in two taxonomic levels and reveals that effect of the exogenous additive is principally reacted in the thermophilic phase and the competitive advantage is shifted from Bacteroidota to Firmicutes after treatment with the exogenous additive.",
    "title": "Fractional grey unequal-interval time-varying Lotka-Volterra model and its application for microbial communities in compost.",
    "abstract": "This paper starts by presenting an empirical finding in the U.S. stock market: Between 2001 and 2021, high productivity was achieved when the Shannon evenness-measuring the inverse of concentration-dropped. Conversely, when the Shannon evenness soared, productivity plunged. The same inverse relationship between evenness and productivity has been observed in several ecosystems. This suggests explaining this result by adopting the business ecosystem perspective, i.e., regarding the tangle of interactions between companies as an ecological network, in which companies play the role of species. A useful strategy to model such ecological communities is through ensembles of synthetic communities of pairwise interacting species, whose dynamics is described by the Lotka-Volterra generalized equations. Each community is specified by a random interaction matrix whose elements are drawn from a uniform distribution centered around 0. It is shown that the inverse relationship between productivity and evenness can be generated by varying the strength of the interaction between companies. When the strength increases, productivity increases and simultaneously the market evenness decreases. Conversely, when the strength decreases, productivity decreases and evenness increases. This strength can be interpreted as reflecting the looseness of monetary policy, thus providing a link between interest rates and market structure.",
    "title": "Productivity vs. Evenness in the U.S. Financial Market: A Business Ecosystem Perspective.",
    "abstract": "We study the stochastic spatial Lotka-Volterra model for predator-prey interaction subject to a periodically varying carrying capacity. The Lotka-Volterra model with on-site lattice occupation restrictions (i.e., finite local carrying capacity) that represent finite food resources for the prey population exhibits a continuous active-to-absorbing phase transition. The active phase is sustained by the existence of spatiotemporal patterns in the form of pursuit and evasion waves. Monte Carlo simulations on a two-dimensional lattice are utilized to investigate the effect of seasonal variations of the environment on species coexistence. The results of our simulations are also compared to a mean-field analysis in order to specifically delineate the impact of stochastic fluctuations and spatial correlations. We find that the parameter region of predator and prey coexistence is enlarged relative to the stationary situation when the carrying capacity varies periodically. The (quasi-)stationary regime of our periodically varying Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system shows qualitative agreement between the stochastic model and the mean-field approximation. However, under periodic carrying capacity-switching environments, the mean-field rate equations\u00a0predict period-doubling scenarios that are washed out by internal reaction noise in the stochastic lattice model. Utilizing visual representations of the lattice simulations and dynamical correlation functions, we study how the pursuit and evasion waves are affected by ensuing resonance effects. Correlation function measurements indicate a time delay in the response of the system to sudden changes in the environment. Resonance features are observed in our simulations that cause prolonged persistent spatial correlations. Different effective static environments are explored in the extreme limits of fast and slow periodic switching. The analysis of the mean-field equations\u00a0in the fast-switching regime enables a semiquantitative description of the (quasi-)stationary state.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with periodically varying carrying capacity.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we study the dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra model with an Allee effect, which is included in the predator population and has an abstract functional form. We classify the original system as a slow-fast system when the conversion rate and mortality of the predator population are relatively low compared to the prey population. In comparison to numerical simulation results that indicate at most three limit cycles in the system [Sen et al., J. Math. Biol. 84(1), 1-27 (2022)], we prove the uniqueness and stability of the slow-fast limit periodic set of the system in the two-scale framework. We also discuss canard explosion phenomena and homoclinic bifurcation. Furthermore, we use the enter-exit function to demonstrate the existence of relaxation oscillations. We construct a transition map to show the appearance of homoclinic loops including turning or jump points. To the best of our knowledge, the homoclinic loop of fast slow jump slow type, as classified by Dumortier, is uncommon. Our biological results demonstrate that under certain parameter conditions, population density does not change uniformly, but instead presents slow-fast periodic fluctuations. This phenomenon may explain sudden population density explosions in populations.",
    "title": "Canard, homoclinic loop, and relaxation oscillations in a Lotka-Volterra system with Allee effect in predator population.",
    "abstract": "Most predictive models of ecosystem dynamics are based on interactions between organisms: their influence on each other's growth and death. We review here how theoretical approaches are used to extract interaction measurements from experimental data in microbiology, particularly focusing on the generalised Lotka-Volterra (gLV) framework. Though widely used, we argue that the gLV model should be avoided for estimating interactions in batch culture - the most common, simplest and cheapest in vitro approach to culturing microbes. Fortunately, alternative approaches offer a way out of this conundrum. Firstly, on the experimental side, alternatives such as the serial-transfer and chemostat systems more closely match the theoretical assumptions of the gLV model. Secondly, on the theoretical side, explicit organism-environment interaction models can be used to study the dynamics of batch-culture systems. We hope that our recommendations will increase the tractability of microbial model systems for experimentalists and theoreticians alike.",
    "title": "Microbial interactions in theory and practice: when are measurements compatible with models?",
    "abstract": "We compute the typical number of equilibria of the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations describing species-rich ecosystems with random, nonreciprocal interactions using the replicated Kac-Rice method. We characterize the multiple-equilibria phase by determining the average abundance and similarity between equilibria as a function of their diversity (i.e., of the number of coexisting species) and of the variability of the interactions. We show that linearly unstable equilibria are dominant, and that the typical number of equilibria differs with respect to the average number.",
    "title": "Generalized Lotka-Volterra Equations with Random, Nonreciprocal Interactions: The Typical Number of Equilibria.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we are concerned with a new stochastic system of nonlinear partial differential equations modeling the Lotka-Volterra interactions of predators and preys in the presence of prey-taxis, spatial diffusion, and noises. The spatial and temporal variations of the predator's velocity are determined by the prey gradient. In the first part, we derive a macroscopic model from stochastic kinetic equations by using the micro-macro decomposition method. In the second part, we sketch the proof of the existence of weak martingale solutions by using a Faedo-Galerkin method. In the last part, we develop a one- and two-dimensional finite volume approximation for the stochastic kinetic and macroscopic models, respectively. Our one-dimensional space numerical scheme is uniformly stable along the transition from kinetic to macroscopic regimes. We close with various numerical tests illustrating the convergence of our numerical method and some features of our stochastic macro-scale system.",
    "title": "Stochastic reaction-diffusion system modeling predator-prey interactions with prey-taxis and noises.",
    "abstract": "Small and large scale pandemics are a natural phenomenon repeatably appearing throughout history, causing ecological and biological shifts in ecosystems and a wide range of their habitats. These pandemics usually start with a single strain but shortly become multi-strain due to a mutation process of the pathogen causing the epidemic. In this study, we propose a novel eco-epidemiological model that captures multi-species prey-predator dynamics with a multi-strain pandemic. The proposed model extends and combines the Lotka-Volterra prey-predator model and the Susceptible-Infectious-Recovered epidemiological model. We investigate the ecosystem's sensitivity and stability during such a multi-strain pandemic through extensive simulation relying on both synthetic cases as well as two real-world configurations. Our results are aligned with known ecological and epidemiological findings, thus supporting the adequacy of the proposed model in realistically capturing the complex eco-epidemiological properties of the multi-species multi-strain pandemic dynamics.",
    "title": "Multi-species prey-predator dynamics during a multi-strain pandemic.",
    "abstract": "It is well-known that interactions between species determine the population composition in an ecosystem. Conventional studies have focused on fixed population structures to reveal how interactions shape population compositions. However, interaction structures are not fixed but change over time due to invasions. Thus, invasion and interaction play an important role in shaping communities. Despite its importance, however, the interplay between invasion and interaction has not been well explored. Here, we investigate how invasion affects the population composition with interactions in open evolving ecological systems considering generalized Lotka-Volterra-type dynamics. Our results show that the system has two distinct regimes. One is characterized by low diversity with abrupt changes of dominant species in time, appearing when the interaction between species is strong and invasion slowly occurs. On the other hand, frequent invasions can induce higher diversity with slow changes in abundances despite strong interactions. It is because invasion happens before the system reaches its equilibrium, which drags the system from its equilibrium all the time. All species have similar abundances in this regime, which implies that fast invasion induces regime shift. Therefore, whether invasion or interaction dominates determines the population composition.",
    "title": "Invasion and interaction determine population composition in an open evolving ecological system.",
    "abstract": "In this work, we first modify a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system to incorporate an opportunistic predator and weak Allee effect in prey. The prey will be extinct if the combined effect of hunting and other food resources of predator is large. Otherwise, the dynamic behaviour of the system is extremely rich. A series of bifurcations such as saddle-node bifurcation, Hopf bifurcation, and Bogdanov-Takens bifurcation can happen. The validity of the theoretical results are supported with numerical simulations.",
    "title": "Complex dynamics of a predator-prey model with opportunistic predator and weak Allee effect in prey.",
    "abstract": "A sustainable and cost-effective approach of waste water management is biological treatment for reducing organic carbon, nitrate, and phosphate content. Co-culturing of algae with bacteria in wastewater leads to higher biomass yield and improvement in COD/nutrients removal compared to the single strain counterparts. In this study, a mathematical modeling framework is proposed to predict the dynamic behavior of microbial co-culture in dairy waste water. Initially, the model has been developed to predict the biomass growth and COD/nutrients removal with discrete cultures (algae and bacteria). As an extension of the single strain kinetic model, Lotka-Volterra model was formulated to explore the symbiotic relationship between algae and bacteria in a co-culture and the impact of the interactions on the COD/nutrients removal efficiency and growth dynamics. Supporting experiments were carried out in 6 parallel sets (3 sets with triplicates) with standalone algae (Chlorella vulgaris, CV), bacteria (activated sludge), and co-culture in real-time dairy liquid effluent in lab flasks and predicted values from modeling were validated against experimental findings. Statistical analysis confirms reasonably good agreement between the model predictions and experimental findings indicating a positive synergistic effect of the algae-bacterial co-culture on COD removal.",
    "title": "Kinetic modeling and experiments on removal of COD/nutrients from dairy effluent using chlorella and co-culture.",
    "abstract": "Lotka-Volterra (LV) equations play a key role in the mathematical modeling of various ecological, biological and chemical systems. When the number of species (or, depending on the viewpoint, chemical components) becomes large, basic but fundamental questions such as computing the number of surviving species still lack theoretical answers. In this paper, we consider a large system of LV equations where the interactions between the various species are a realization of a random matrix. We provide conditions to have a unique equilibrium and present a heuristics to compute the number of surviving species. This heuristics combines arguments from Random Matrix Theory, mathematical optimization (LCP), and standard extreme value theory. Numerical simulations, together with an empirical study where the strength of interactions evolves with time, illustrate the accuracy and scope of the results.",
    "title": "Equilibrium and surviving species in a large Lotka-Volterra system of differential equations.",
    "abstract": "Complex system stability can be studied via linear stability analysis using random matrix theory (RMT) or via feasibility (requiring positive equilibrium abundances). Both approaches highlight the importance of interaction structure. Here we show, analytically and numerically, how RMT and feasibility approaches can be complementary. In generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) models with random interaction matrices, feasibility increases when predator-prey interactions increase; increasing competition/mutualism has the opposite effect. These changes have crucial impact on the stability of the GLV model.",
    "title": "Feasibility and stability in large Lotka Volterra systems with interaction structure.",
    "abstract": "The replicator equations\u00a0are a family of ordinary differential equations\u00a0that arise in evolutionary game theory, and are closely related to Lotka-Volterra. We produce an infinite family of replicator equations\u00a0which are Liouville-Arnold integrable. We show this by explicitly providing conserved quantities and a Poisson structure. As a corollary, we classify all tournament replicators up to dimension 6 and most of dimension 7. As an application, we show that Fig.\u00a01 of Allesina and Levine [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 108, 5638 (2011)10.1073/pnas.1014428108] produces quasiperiodic dynamics.",
    "title": "Completely integrable replicator dynamics associated to competitive networks.",
    "abstract": "The airways of people with cystic fibrosis (",
    "title": "Therapeutic interventions alter ecological interactions among cystic fibrosis airway microbiota.",
    "abstract": "Species-rich communities, such as the microbiota or microbial ecosystems, provide key functions for human health and climatic resilience. Increasing effort is being dedicated to design experimental protocols for selecting community-level functions of interest. These experiments typically involve selection acting on populations of communities, each of which is composed of multiple species. If numerical simulations started to explore the evolutionary dynamics of this complex, multi-scale system, a comprehensive theoretical understanding of the process of artificial selection of communities is still lacking. Here, we propose a general model for the evolutionary dynamics of communities composed of a large number of interacting species, described by disordered generalised Lotka-Volterra equations. Our analytical and numerical results reveal that selection for scalar community functions leads to the emergence, along an evolutionary trajectory, of a low-dimensional structure in an initially featureless interaction matrix. Such structure reflects the combination of the properties of the ancestral community and of the selective pressure. Our analysis determines how the speed of adaptation scales with the system parameters and the abundance distribution of the evolved communities. Artificial selection for larger total abundance is thus shown to drive increased levels of mutualism and interaction diversity. Inference of the interaction matrix is proposed as a method to assess the emergence of structured interactions from experimentally accessible measures.",
    "title": "Artificial selection of communities drives the emergence of structured interactions.",
    "abstract": "To alter microbial community composition for therapeutic purposes, an accurate and reliable modeling framework capable of predicting microbial community outcomes is required. Lotka-Volterra (LV) equations have been utilized to describe a breadth of microbial communities, yet, the conditions in which this modeling framework is successful remain unclear. Here, we propose that a set of simple ",
    "title": "When does a Lotka-Volterra model represent microbial interactions? Insights from ",
    "abstract": "In this work, we describe mostly analytical work related to a novel approach to parameter identification for a two-variable Lotka-Volterra (LV) system. Specifically, this approach is qualitative, in that we aim not to determine precise values of model parameters but rather to establish relationships among these parameter values and properties of the trajectories that they generate, based on a small number of available data points. In this vein, we prove a variety of results about the existence, uniqueness, and signs of model parameters for which the trajectory of the system passes exactly through a set of three given data points, representing the smallest possible data set needed for identification of model parameter values. We find that in most situations such a data set determines these values uniquely; we also thoroughly investigate the alternative cases, which result in nonuniqueness or even nonexistence of model parameter values that fit the data. In addition to results about identifiability, our analysis provides information about the long-term dynamics of solutions of the LV system directly from the data without the necessity of estimating specific parameter values.",
    "title": "Rigorous Mapping of Data to Qualitative Properties of Parameter Values and Dynamics: A Case Study on a Two-Variable Lotka-Volterra System.",
    "abstract": "Nonequilibrium and instability features of prey-predator-like systems associated to topological quantum domains emerging from a quantum phase-space description are investigated in the framework of the Weyl-Wigner quantum mechanics. Reporting about the generalized Wigner flow for one-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, H(x,k), constrained by \u2202^{2}H/\u2202x\u2202k=0, the prey-predator dynamics driven by Lotka-Volterra (LV) equations\u00a0is mapped onto the Heisenberg-Weyl noncommutative algebra, [x,k]=i, where the canonical variables x and k are related to the two-dimensional LV parameters, y=e^{-x} and z=e^{-k}. From the non-Liouvillian pattern driven by the associated Wigner currents, hyperbolic equilibrium and stability parameters for the prey-predator-like dynamics are then shown to be affected by quantum distortions over the classical background, in correspondence with nonstationarity and non-Liouvillianity properties quantified in terms of Wigner currents and Gaussian ensemble parameters. As an extension, considering the hypothesis of discretizing the time parameter, nonhyperbolic bifurcation regimes are identified and quantified in terms of z-y anisotropy and Gaussian parameters. The bifurcation diagrams exhibit, for quantum regimes, chaotic patterns highly dependent on Gaussian localization. Besides exemplifying a broad range of applications of the generalized Wigner information flow framework, our results extend, from the continuous (hyperbolic regime) to discrete (chaotic regime) domains, the procedure for quantifying the influence of quantum fluctuations over equilibrium and stability scenarios of LV driven systems.",
    "title": "Distorted stability pattern and chaotic features for quantized prey-predator-like dynamics.",
    "abstract": "This work deals with a systematic approach for the investigation of compound difference anti-synchronization (CDAS) scheme among chaotic generalized Lotka-Volterra biological systems (GLVBSs). First, an active control strategy (ACS) of nonlinear type is described which is specifically based on Lyapunov's stability analysis (LSA) and master-slave framework. In addition, the biological control law having nonlinear expression is constructed for attaining asymptotic stability pattern for the error dynamics of the discussed GLVBSs. Also, simulation results through MATLAB environment are executed for illustrating the efficacy and correctness of considered CDAS approach. Remarkably, our attained analytical outcomes have been in outstanding conformity with the numerical outcomes. The investigated CDAS strategy has numerous significant applications to the fields of encryption and secure communication.",
    "title": "Stability analysis of chaotic generalized Lotka-Volterra system via active compound difference anti-synchronization method.",
    "abstract": "Visual perception of moving objects is integral to our day-to-day life, integrating visual spatial and temporal perception. Most research studies have focused on finding the brain regions activated during motion perception. However, an empirically validated general mathematical model is required to understand the modulation of the motion perception. Here, we develop a mathematical formulation of the modulation of the perception of a moving object due to a change in speed, under the formulation of the invariance of causality.\nWe formulated the perception of a moving object as the coordinate transformation from a retinotopic space onto perceptual space and derived a quantitative relationship between spatiotemporal coordinates. To validate our model, we undertook the analysis of two experiments: (i) the perceived length of the moving arc, and (ii) the perceived time while observing moving stimuli. We performed a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) tractography investigation of subjects to demarcate the anatomical correlation of the modulation of the perception of moving objects.\nOur theoretical model shows that the interaction between visual-spatial and temporal perception, during the perception of moving object is described by coupled linear equations; and experimental observations validate our model. We observed that cerebral area V5 may be an anatomical correlate for this interaction. The physiological basis of interaction is shown by a Lotka-Volterra system delineating interplay between acetylcholine and dopamine neurotransmitters, whose concentrations vary periodically with the orthogonal phase shift between them, occurring at the axodendritic synapse of complex cells at area V5.\nUnder the invariance of causality in the representation of events in retinotopic space and perceptual space, the speed modulates the perception of a moving object. This modulation may be due to variations of the tuning properties of complex cells at area V5 due to the dynamic interaction between acetylcholine and dopamine. Our analysis is the first significant study, to our knowledge, that establishes a mathematical linkage between motion perception and causality invariance.",
    "title": "Interaction between spatial perception and temporal perception enables preservation of cause-effect relationship: Visual psychophysics and neuronal dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Non-consumptive effects such as fear of depredation, can strongly influence predator-prey dynamics. There are several ecological and social motivations for these effects in competitive systems as well. In this work we consider the classic two species ODE and PDE Lotka-Volterra competition models, where one of the competitors is \"fearful\" of the other. We find that the presence of fear can have several interesting dynamical effects on the classical competitive scenarios. Notably, for fear levels in certain regimes, we show novel bi-stability dynamics. Furthermore, in the spatially explicit setting, the effects of several spatially heterogeneous fear functions are investigated. In particular, we show that under certain integral restrictions on the fear function, a weak competition type situation can change to competitive exclusion. Applications of these results to ecological as well as sociopolitical settings are discussed, that connect to the \"landscape of fear\" (LOF) concept in ecology.",
    "title": "The effect of \"fear\" on two species competition.",
    "abstract": "The competitive relationship is one of the important studies in population ecology. In this paper, we investigate the dynamical behaviors of a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition system in which intrinsic rates of increase are governed by the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process. First, we prove the existence and uniqueness of the global solution of the model. Second, the extinction of populations is discussed. Moreover, a sufficient condition for the existence of the stationary distribution in the system is obtained, and, further, the formulas for the mean and the covariance of the probability density function of the corresponding linearized system near the equilibrium point are obtained. Finally, numerical simulations are applied to verify the theoretical results.",
    "title": "Dynamical behaviors of a Lotka-Volterra competition system with the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process.",
    "abstract": "This paper concerns the dynamics of two stochastic hybrid delay Lotka-Volterra systems with harvesting and L\u00e9vy noise in a polluted environment (i.e., predator-prey system and competitive system). For every system, sufficient and necessary conditions for persistence in mean and extinction of each species are established. Then, sufficient conditions for global attractivity of the systems are obtained. Finally, sufficient and necessary conditions for the existence of optimal harvesting strategy are provided. The accurate expressions for the optimal harvesting effort (OHE) and the maximum of expectation of sustainable yield (MESY) are given. Our results show that the dynamic behaviors and optimal harvesting strategy are closely correlated with both time delays and three types of environmental noises (namely white Gaussian noises, telephone noises and L\u00e9vy noises).",
    "title": "Optimal harvesting strategy for stochastic hybrid delay Lotka-Volterra systems with L\u00e9vy noise in a polluted environment.",
    "abstract": "Ecological and evolutionary dynamics are intrinsically entwined. On short timescales, ecological interactions determine the fate and impact of new mutants, while on longer timescales evolution shapes the entire community. Here, we study the evolution of large numbers of closely related strains with generalized Lotka Volterra interactions but no niche structure. Host-pathogen-like interactions drive the community into a spatiotemporally chaotic state characterized by continual, spatially-local, blooms and busts. Upon the slow serial introduction of new strains, the community diversifies indefinitely, accommodating an arbitrarily large number of strains in spite of the absence of stabilizing niche interactions. The diversifying phase persists - albeit with gradually slowing diversification - in the presence of general, nonspecific, fitness differences between strains, which break the assumption of tradeoffs inherent in much previous work. Building on a dynamical-mean field-theory analysis of the ecological dynamics, an approximate effective model captures the evolution of the diversity and distributions of key properties. This work establishes a potential scenario for understanding how the interplay between evolution and ecology - in particular coevolution of a bacterial and a generalist phage species - could give rise to the extensive fine-scale diversity that is ubiquitous in the microbial world.",
    "title": "Spatiotemporal ecological chaos enables gradual evolutionary diversification without niches or tradeoffs.",
    "abstract": "We present a numerical method based on random projections with Gaussian kernels and physics-informed neural networks for the numerical solution of initial value problems (IVPs) of nonlinear stiff ordinary differential equations (ODEs) and index-1 differential algebraic equations (DAEs), which may also arise from spatial discretization of partial differential equations (PDEs). The internal weights are fixed to ones while the unknown weights between the hidden and output layer are computed with Newton's iterations using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-inverse for low to medium scale and sparse QR decomposition with L 2 regularization for medium- to large-scale systems. Building on previous works on random projections, we also prove its approximation accuracy. To deal with stiffness and sharp gradients, we propose an adaptive step-size scheme and address a continuation method for providing good initial guesses for Newton iterations. The \"optimal\" bounds of the uniform distribution from which the values of the shape parameters of the Gaussian kernels are sampled and the number of basis functions are \"parsimoniously\" chosen based on bias-variance trade-off decomposition. To assess the performance of the scheme in terms of both numerical approximation accuracy and computational cost, we used eight benchmark problems (three index-1 DAEs problems, and five stiff ODEs problems including the Hindmarsh-Rose neuronal model of chaotic dynamics and the Allen-Cahn phase-field PDE). The efficiency of the scheme was compared against two stiff ODEs/DAEs solvers, namely, ode15s and ode23t solvers of the MATLAB ODE suite as well as against deep learning as implemented in the DeepXDE library for scientific machine learning and physics-informed learning for the solution of the Lotka-Volterra ODEs included in the demos of the library. A software/toolbox in Matlab (that we call RanDiffNet) with demos is also provided.",
    "title": "Parsimonious physics-informed random projection neural networks for initial value problems of ODEs and index-1 DAEs.",
    "abstract": "The eigenvalue spectrum of a random matrix often only depends on the first and second moments of its elements, but not on the specific distribution from which they are drawn. The validity of this universality principle is often assumed without proof in applications. In this Letter, we offer a pertinent counterexample in the context of the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations. Using dynamic mean-field theory, we derive the statistics of the interactions between species in an evolved ecological community. We then show that the full statistics of these interactions, beyond those of a Gaussian ensemble, are required to correctly predict the eigenvalue spectrum and therefore stability. Consequently, the universality principle fails in this system. We thus show that the eigenvalue spectra of random matrices can be used to deduce the stability of \"feasible\" ecological communities, but only if the emergent non-Gaussian statistics of the interactions between species are taken into account.",
    "title": "Breakdown of Random-Matrix Universality in Persistent Lotka-Volterra Communities.",
    "abstract": "Historically, those ecological communities thought to be dominated by competitive interactions among their component species have been assumed to exhibit transitive competition, that is, a hierarchy of competitive strength from most dominant to most submissive. A surge of recent literature takes issue with this assumption and notes that some species in some communities are intransitive, where a rock/scissors/paper arrangement characterizes some components of some communities. We here propose a merging of these two ideas, wherein an intransitive subgroup of species connects with a distinct subcomponent that is organized hierarchically, such that the expected eventual takeover by the dominant competitor in the hierarchy is thwarted, and the entire community can be sustained. This means that the combination of transitive and intransitive structures can maintain many species even when competition is strong. Here, we develop this theoretical framework using a simple variant on the Lotka-Volterra competition equations to illustrate the process. We also present data for the ant community in a coffee agroecosystem in Puerto Rico, that appears to be organized in this way. A detailed study on one typical coffee farm illustrates an intransitive loop of three species that seems to maintain a distinct competitive community of at least 13 additional species.",
    "title": "Intransitivity as a dynamic assembly engine of competitive communities.",
    "abstract": "The identification of diffusion processes is challenging for many real-world systems with sparsely sampled observation data. In this work, we propose a data augmentation-based sparse Bayesian learning method to identify a class of diffusion processes from sparsely sampled data. We impute latent unsampled diffusion paths between adjacent observations and construct a candidate model for the diffusion processes with the sparsity-inducing prior on model parameters. Given the augmented data and candidate model, we investigate the full joint posterior distribution of all the parameters and latent diffusion paths under a Bayesian learning framework. We then design a Markov chain Monte Carlo sampler with non-degenerate acceptance probability on system dimension to draw samples from the posterior distribution to estimate the parameters and latent diffusion paths. Particularly, the proposed method can handle sparse data that are regularly or irregularly sampled in time. Simulations on the well-known Langevin equation, homogeneous diffusion in a symmetric double-well potential, and stochastic Lotka-Volterra equation demonstrate the effectiveness and considerable accuracy of the proposed method.",
    "title": "Data augmentation-based statistical inference of diffusion processes.",
    "abstract": "Litter decomposition is a key component of biogeochemical recycling. It is highly sensitive to changes in microbial community assembly. An interesting phenomenon in litter decomposition is the home-field advantage (HFA), where litter decomposes faster in native locations than in foreign sites. However, the role of the HFA in litter decomposition remains controversial. This review examines current evidence relating to the HFA using the leaf economics spectrum theory and the Lotka-Volterra niche competition model and explains its influence on the microbial assembly process. Here, it is proposed that the microbial community assembly could help to explain the HFA at spatiotemporal scales. This review improves understanding of the role of the succession of microbial communities in HFA litter decomposition and in the elemental cycle of forest systems.",
    "title": "Home-field advantage in litter decomposition: A critical review from a microbial perspective.",
    "abstract": "All life forms on earth ultimately descended from a primordial population dubbed the last universal common ancestor or LUCA via Darwinian evolution. Extant living systems share two salient functional features, a metabolism extracting and transforming energy required for survival, and an evolvable, informational polymer-the genome-conferring heredity. Genome replication invariably generates essential and ubiquitous genetic parasites. Here we model the energetic, replicative conditions of LUCA-like organisms and their parasites, as well as adaptive problem solving of host-parasite pairs. We show using an adapted Lotka-Volterra frame-work that three host-parasite pairs-individually a unit of a host and a parasite that is itself parasitized, therefore a nested parasite pair-are sufficient for robust and stable homeostasis, forming a life cycle. This nested parasitism model includes competition and habitat restriction. Its catalytic life cycle efficiently captures, channels and transforms energy, enabling dynamic host survival and adaptation. We propose a Malthusian fitness model for a quasispecies evolving through a host-nested parasite life cycle with two core features, rapid replacement of degenerate parasites and increasing evolutionary stability of host-nested parasite units from one to three pairs.",
    "title": "Energy-harnessing problem solving of primordial life: Modeling the emergence of catalytic host-nested parasite life cycles.",
    "abstract": "AbstractHow is trait diversity in a community apportioned between and within coevolving species? Disruptive selection may result in either a few species with large intraspecific trait variation (ITV) or many species with different mean traits but little ITV. Similar questions arise in spatially structured communities: heterogeneous environments could result in either a few species that exhibit local adaptation or many species with different mean traits but little local adaptation. To date, theory has been well-equipped to either include ITV or to dynamically determine the number of coexisting species, but not both. Here, we devise a theoretical framework that combines these facets and apply it to the above questions of how trait variation is apportioned within and between species in unstructured and structured populations, using two simple models of Lotka-Volterra competition. For unstructured communities, we find that as the breadth of the resource spectrum increases, ITV goes from being unimportant to crucial for characterizing the community. For spatially structured communities on two patches, we find no local adaptation, symmetric local adaptation, or asymmetric local adaptation, depending on how much the patches differ. Our framework provides a general approach to incorporate ITV in models of eco-evolutionary community assembly.",
    "title": "A Theoretical Framework for Trait-Based Eco-Evolutionary Dynamics: Population Structure, Intraspecific Variation, and Community Assembly.",
    "abstract": "In the analysis of complex ecosystems it is common to use random interaction coefficients, which are often assumed to be such that all species are statistically equivalent. In this work we relax this assumption by imposing hierarchical interspecies interactions. These are incorporated into a generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamical system. In a hierarchical community species benefit more, on average, from interactions with species further below them in the hierarchy than from interactions with those above. Using dynamic mean-field theory, we demonstrate that a strong hierarchical structure is stabilizing, but that it reduces the number of species in the surviving community, as well as their abundances. Additionally, we show that increased heterogeneity in the variances of the interaction coefficients across positions in the hierarchy is destabilizing. We also comment on the structure of the surviving community and demonstrate that the abundance and probability of survival of a species are dependent on its position in the hierarchy.",
    "title": "Generalized Lotka-Volterra model with hierarchical interactions.",
    "abstract": "Models of many-species ecosystems, such as the Lotka-Volterra and replicator equations, suggest that these systems generically exhibit near-extinction processes, where population sizes go very close to zero for some time before rebounding, accompanied by a slowdown of the dynamics (aging). Here, we investigate the connection between near-extinction and aging by introducing an exactly solvable many-variable model, where the time derivative of each population size vanishes at both zero and some finite maximal size. We show that aging emerges generically when random interactions are taken between populations. Population sizes remain exponentially close (in time) to the absorbing values for extended periods of time, with rapid transitions between these two values. The mechanism for aging is different from the one at play in usual glassy systems: At long times, the system evolves in the vicinity of unstable fixed points rather than marginal ones.",
    "title": "Aging by Near-Extinctions in Many-Variable Interacting Populations.",
    "abstract": "We introduce the Weak-form Estimation of Nonlinear Dynamics (WENDy) method for estimating model parameters for non-linear systems of ODEs. Without relying on any numerical differential equation solvers, WENDy computes accurate estimates and is robust to large (biologically relevant) levels of measurement noise. For low dimensional systems with modest amounts of data, WENDy is competitive with conventional forward solver-based nonlinear least squares methods in terms of speed and accuracy. For both higher dimensional systems and stiff systems, WENDy is typically both faster (often by orders of magnitude) and more accurate than forward solver-based approaches. The core mathematical idea involves an efficient conversion of the strong form representation of a model to its weak form, and then solving a regression problem to perform parameter inference. The core statistical idea rests on the Errors-In-Variables framework, which necessitates the use of the iteratively reweighted least squares algorithm. Further improvements are obtained by using orthonormal test functions, created from a set of C-infinity bump functions of varying support sizes. We demonstrate the high robustness and computational efficiency by applying WENDy to estimate parameters in some common models from population biology, neuroscience, and biochemistry, including logistic growth, Lotka-Volterra, FitzHugh-Nagumo, Hindmarsh-Rose, and a Protein Transduction Benchmark model. Software and code for reproducing the examples is available at (https://github.com/MathBioCU/WENDy).",
    "title": "Direct Estimation of Parameters in ODE Models Using WENDy: Weak-form Estimation of Nonlinear Dynamics.",
    "abstract": "To evaluate the degree of mutualism between socioeconomic development and industrial and domestic pollution in provinces of China and to analyze the differences in spatial characteristics between their regions.\nThis study used the HDI to measure socioeconomic development and the Lotka-Volterra model to group and estimate the force-on and mutualism degree indexes of industrial and domestic pollution and socioeconomic development in 31 provinces of China, which were then used to them. Then, the study calculated the global and local Moran's \nThe research showed that in 2016-2020, compared with 2011-2015, the number of provinces where socioeconomic development and industrial pollution control mutually promoted each other was approximately the same, while the number of provinces that promoted each other's effectiveness with domestic pollution control was reduced. There were many provinces with industrial pollution ranked in the S-level, while most provinces placed a different emphasis on industrial and domestic pollution control. The rank in China tended to be spatially balanced in 2016-2020. There was a negative spatial autocorrelation between the ranks of most provinces and neighboring provinces in 2011-2020. The ranks of some eastern provinces showed a phenomenon of a high-high agglomeration, while the ranks of provinces in the western region were dominated by a high-low agglomeration.",
    "title": "Research on the Evaluation and Spatial Characteristics of China's Provincial Socioeconomic Development and Pollution Control Based on the Lotka-Volterra Model.",
    "abstract": "Predator-prey interactions are one of ecology's central research themes, but with many interdisciplinary implications across the social and natural sciences. Here we consider an often-overlooked species in these interactions, namely parasites. We first show that a simple predator-prey-parasite model, inspired by the classical Lotka-Volterra equations, fails to produce a stable coexistence of all three species, thus failing to provide a biologically realistic outcome. To improve this, we introduce free space as a relevant eco-evolutionary component in a new mathematical model that uses a game-theoretical payoff matrix to describe a more realistic setup. We then show that the consideration of free space stabilizes the dynamics by means of cyclic dominance that emerges between the three species. We determine the parameter regions of coexistence as well as the types of bifurcations leading to it by means of analytical derivations as well as by means of numerical simulations. We conclude that the consideration of free space as a finite resource reveals the limits of biodiversity in predator-prey-parasite interactions, and it may also help us in the determination of factors that promote a healthy biota.",
    "title": "Eco-evolutionary cyclic dominance among predators, prey, and parasites.",
    "abstract": "Constitutive relations are fundamental and essential to characterize physical systems. By utilizing the \u03ba-deformed functions, some constitutive relations are generalized. We here show some applications of the Kaniadakis distributions, based on the inverse hyperbolic sine function, to some topics belonging to the realm of statistical physics and natural science.",
    "title": "On the Kaniadakis Distributions Applied in Statistical Physics and Natural Sciences.",
    "abstract": "The human gut is a complex ecosystem consisting of hundreds of microbial species interacting with each other and with the human host. Mathematical models of the gut microbiome integrate our knowledge of this system and help to formulate hypotheses to explain observations. The generalized Lotka-Volterra model has been widely used for this purpose, but it does not describe interaction mechanisms and thus does not account for metabolic flexibility. Recently, models that explicitly describe gut microbial metabolite production and consumption have become popular. These models have been used to investigate the factors that shape gut microbial composition and to link specific gut microorganisms to changes in metabolite concentrations found in diseases. Here, we review how such models are built and what we have learned so far from their application to human gut microbiome data. In addition, we discuss current challenges of these models and how these can be addressed in the future.",
    "title": "Metabolic models of human gut microbiota: Advances and challenges.",
    "abstract": "Ecological protection and high-quality development of the Yellow River Basin have always been seriously restricted by its unreasonable economic structure and low level of innovation. A two-dimensional indicator system was constructed to evaluate the security of the innovative ecosystem in the Yellow River Basin and identify its driving factors. The R clustering, the method of coefficient of variation, and the entropy method were used to screen and empower the indicators, and then the Lotka-Volterra symbiotic coupling model was introduced innovatively to calculate the security index and analyze its spatio-temporal evolution. Finally, the fixed-effect regression model and Granger causality test were used to identify the driving factors. It was found that (1) The security of the innovative ecosystem in the Yellow River Basin from 2012 to 2021 showed an overall upward tendency, but it was still at a low level, and the innovative landscape community lagged behind the innovative biome for a long time; (2) The security status of the innovative ecosystem showed a differential pattern of \"high in the east and south, and lower in the west and north\"; (3) Innovation transformation ability, innovation consumption capacity, education, and natural ecological environment are crucial driving factors for improving the security level of an innovative ecosystem.",
    "title": "The Security and Driving Factors of the Innovative Ecosystem: Evidence from the Yellow River Basin.",
    "abstract": "We present a novel mathematical model of two adversarial forces in the vicinity of a non-combatant population in order to explore the impact of each force pursuing specific decision-making strategies. Each force has the opportunity to draw support by enabling the decision-making initiative of the population, in tension with maintaining tactical and organisational effectiveness over their adversary. Each dynamic model component of force, population and decision-making, is defined by the archetypal Lanchester, Lotka-Volterra and Kuramoto-Sakaguchi models, with feedback between each component adding heterogeneity. Developing a scheme where cultural factors determine decision-making strategies for each force, this work highlights the parametric and topological factors that influence favourable results in a non-linear system where physical outcomes are highly dependent on the non-physical and cognitive nature of each force's intended strategy.",
    "title": "`Friend or foe' and decision making initiative in complex conflict environments.",
    "abstract": "Understanding community saturation is fundamental to ecological theory. While investigations of the diversity of evolutionary stable states (ESSs) are widespread, the diversity of communities that have yet to reach an evolutionary endpoint is poorly understood. We use Lotka-Volterra dynamics and trait-based competition to compare the diversity of randomly assembled communities to the diversity of the ESS. We show that, with a large enough founding diversity (whether assembled at once or through sequential invasions), the number of long-time surviving species exceeds that of the ESS. However, the excessive founding diversity required to assemble a saturated community increases rapidly with the dimension of phenotype space. Additionally, traits present in communities resulting from random assembly are more clustered in phenotype space compared to random, although still markedly less ordered than the ESS. By combining theories of random assembly and ESSs we bring a new viewpoint to both the saturation and random assembly literature.",
    "title": "Maximal ecological diversity exceeds evolutionary diversity in model ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "Optimizing bioreactor performance for organic matter removal can achieve sustainable and energy-efficient micropollutant removal in subsequent tertiary treatment. Bioreactor performance heavily depends on its resident microbial community; hence, a deeper understanding of community dynamics is essential. The microbial communities of three different bioreactors (biological activated carbon, moving bed biofilm reactor, sand filter), used for organic matter removal from wastewater treatment effluent, were characterized by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequence analysis. An interdependency between bioreactor performance and microbial community profile was observed. Overall, Proteobacteria was the most predominant phylum, and Comamonadaceae was the most predominant family in all bioreactors. The relative abundance of the genus Roseococcus was positively correlated with organic matter removal. A generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) model was established to understand the interactions in the microbial community. By identifying microbial dynamics and their role in bioreactors, a strategy can be developed to improve bioreactor performance.",
    "title": "Microbial dynamics and bioreactor performance are interlinked with organic matter removal from wastewater treatment plant effluent.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, a delayed fractional Lotka-Volterra food chain chemostat model with incommensurate orders is proposed, and the effect on system stability and bifurcation of this model are discussed. First, for the system with no controller, the stability and Hopf bifurcation with respect to time delay are investigated. Taking the time delay as the bifurcation parameter, the relevant characteristic equations are analyzed, and the conditions for Hopf bifurcation are proposed. The results show that the controller can fundamentally affect the stability of the system, and that they both have an important impact on the generation of bifurcation at the same time. Finally, numerical simulation is carried out to support the theoretical data.",
    "title": "Stability and bifurcation control for a fractional-order chemostat model with time delays and incommensurate orders.",
    "abstract": "With increasing levels of antimicrobial resistance impacting both human and animal health, novel means of treating resistant infections are urgently needed. Bacteriophages and predatory bacteria such as ",
    "title": "The role of mathematical modelling in understanding prokaryotic predation.",
    "abstract": "May and Leonard (SIAM J\u00a0Appl\u00a0Math 29:243-253, 1975) introduced a three-species Lotka-Volterra type population model that exhibits heteroclinic cycling. Rather than producing a periodic limit cycle, the trajectory takes longer and longer to complete each \"cycle\", passing closer and closer to unstable fixed points in which one population dominates and the others approach zero. Aperiodic heteroclinic dynamics have subsequently been studied in ecological systems (side-blotched lizards; colicinogenic Escherichia coli), in the immune system, in neural information processing models (\"winnerless competition\"), and in models of neural central pattern generators. Yet as May and Leonard observed \"Biologically, the behavior (produced by the model) is nonsense. Once it is conceded that the variables represent animals, and therefore cannot fall below unity, it is clear that the system will, after a few cycles, converge on some single population, extinguishing the other two.\" Here, we explore different ways of introducing discrete stochastic dynamics based on May and Leonard's ODE model, with application to ecological population dynamics, and to a neuromotor central pattern generator system. We study examples of several quantitatively distinct asymptotic behaviors, including total extinction of all species, extinction to a single species, and persistent cyclic dominance with finite mean cycle length.",
    "title": "Heteroclinic cycling and extinction in May-Leonard models with demographic stochasticity.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we consider the population models with resource-dependent dispersal for single-species and two-species with competition. For the single-species model, it is well-known that the total population supported by the environment is always greater than the environmental carrying capacity if the dispersal is simply random diffusion. However, we find that the total population supported can be equal or smaller than the environmental carrying capacity when the dispersal depends on the resource distribution. This analytical finding not only well agrees with the yeast experiment observation of Zhang et al. (Ecol Lett 20(9):1118-1128, 2017), but also indicates that resource-dependent dispersal may produce different outcomes compared to the random dispersal. For the two-species competition model, when two competing species use the same dispersal strategy up to a multiplicative constant (i.e. their dispersal strategies are proportional) or both diffusion coefficients are large, we give a classification of global dynamics. We also show, along with numerical simulations, that if the dispersal strategies are resource-dependent, even one species has slower diffusion, coexistence is possible though competitive exclusion may occur under different conditions. This is distinct from the prominent result that with random dispersal the slower diffuser always wipes out its fast competitor. Our analytical results, supported by the numerical simulations, show that the resource-dependent dispersal strategy has profound impact on the population dynamics and evolutionary processes.",
    "title": "Population dynamics with resource-dependent dispersal: single- and two-species models.",
    "abstract": "Networks are ubiquitous throughout biology, spanning the entire range from molecules to food webs and global environmental systems. Yet, despite substantial efforts by the scientific community, the inference of these networks from data still presents a problem that is unsolved in general. One frequent strategy of addressing the structure of networks is the assumption that the interactions among molecular or organismal populations are static and correlative. While often successful, these static methods are no panacea. They usually ignore the asymmetry of relationships between two species and inferences become more challenging if the network nodes represent dynamically changing quantities. Overcoming these challenges, two very different network inference approaches have been proposed in the literature: Lotka-Volterra (LV) models and Multivariate Autoregressive (MAR) models. These models are computational frameworks with different mathematical structures which, nevertheless, have both been proposed for the same purpose of inferring the interactions within coexisting population networks from observed time-series data. Here, we assess these dynamic network inference methods for the first time in a side-by-side comparison, using both synthetically generated and ecological datasets. Multivariate Autoregressive and Lotka-Volterra models are mathematically equivalent at the steady state, but the results of our comparison suggest that Lotka-Volterra models are generally superior in capturing the dynamics of networks with non-linear dynamics, whereas Multivariate Autoregressive models are better suited for analyses of networks of populations with process noise and close-to linear behavior. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study comparing LV and MAR approaches. Both frameworks are valuable tools that address slightly different aspects of dynamic networks.",
    "title": "Inference of dynamic interaction networks: A comparison between Lotka-Volterra and multivariate autoregressive models.",
    "abstract": "This study deals with the dynamic interactions between seaports and decision-making strategy for seaport operations by utilizing four-dimensional fractional Lotka-Volterra competition model under frequently disrupted by time-delay factor. Nonlinear analysis methods, including equilibrium analysis, stability evaluation, and time series investigation, are intensely explored to describe the cooperation and competition dynamics in maritime logistics. The dynamical analysis indicates that the port competition system shows a complex and highly nonlinear behaviour, notably illustrating unstable equilibria and even chaotic phenomena. Besides, nonlinear dynamical interactions in seaport management have been analysed by exploiting fractional calculus (FC) and system dynamics theory. Novel multi-criteria decision-making strategies realized by the neural network prediction controller (NNC) and adaptive fractional-order super-twisting sliding mode control (AFOSTSM) have been presented for dealing with throughput dynamics under parametric perturbations and external disturbances. Particularly, the active control algorithms are implemented to ensure the recovery strategy for throughput growth of Vietnam ports in the post-coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic era. The case study has confirmed the efficacy of the proposed strategy by using system dynamics and control theory. The simulation results show that the average growth rates of container throughput can be ensured up to 7.46% by exploiting resilience management scheme. The presented method can be also utilized for providing managerial insights and solutions on efficient port operations. In addition, the control strategies with neural network forecasting can help managers obtain timely and cost-effective decision-making policy for port sustainability against unprecedented impacts on global supply chains related to COVID-19 pandemic.",
    "title": "Seaport throughput forecasting and post COVID-19 recovery policy by using effective decision-making strategy: A case study of Vietnam ports.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra model is widely used to model interactions between two species. Here, we generate synthetic data mimicking competitive, mutualistic and antagonistic interactions between two tumor cell lines, and then use the Lotka-Volterra model to infer the interaction type. Structural identifiability of the Lotka-Volterra model is confirmed, and practical identifiability is assessed for three experimental designs: (a) use of a single data set, with a mixture of both cell lines observed over time, (b) a sequential design where growth rates and carrying capacities are estimated using data from experiments in which each cell line is grown in isolation, and then interaction parameters are estimated from an experiment involving a mixture of both cell lines, and (c) a parallel experimental design where all model parameters are fitted to data from two mixtures (containing both cell lines but with different initial ratios) simultaneously. Each design is tested on data generated from the Lotka-Volterra model with noise added, to determine efficacy in an ideal sense. In addition to assessing each design for practical identifiability, we investigate how the predictive power of the model - i.e., its ability to fit data for initial ratios other than those to which it was calibrated - is affected by the choice of experimental design. The parallel calibration procedure is found to be optimal and is further tested on in silico data generated from a spatially-resolved cellular automaton model, which accounts for oxygen consumption and allows for variation in the intensity level of the interaction between the two cell lines. We use this study to highlight the care that must be taken when interpreting parameter estimates for the spatially-averaged Lotka-Volterra model when it is calibrated against data produced by the spatially-resolved cellular automaton model, since baseline competition for space and resources in the CA model may contribute to a discrepancy between the type of interaction used to generate the CA data and the type of interaction inferred by the LV model.",
    "title": "Designing experimental conditions to use the Lotka-Volterra model to infer tumor cell line interaction types.",
    "abstract": "Mechanistic dynamic models have become an essential tool for understanding biomolecular networks and other biological systems. Biochemical stochasticity can be extremely important in some situations, e.g., at the single-cell level where there is a low copy number of the species involved. In these scenarios, deterministic models are not suitable to characterize the dynamics, so stochastic dynamic models should be considered. Here, we address the challenging problem of parameter estimation in stochastic dynamic models. Despite recent advances, this area is considerably less mature than its deterministic counterpart. We present a novel strategy based on two components: (i) global optimization via a hybrid stochastic-deterministic approach, and (ii) stochastic simulation techniques tailored to the sparsity of the available experimental data. Regarding the latter, for cases of dense population data we make use of a novel approach using a Partial Integro-Differential Equation (PIDE) model solved using a semilagrangian method. In order to further speed up the simulations, we also present efficient parallel implementations for multi-core CPUs and also for graphical processing units (GPUs). Importantly, whereas SDE and Fokker Planck approximations of the Chemical Master Equation (CME) apply when the reactant populations are sufficiently large, the PIDE approximation to the CME is valid for very low copy numbers, and therefore they enable us to tackle parameter estimation for systems with large intrinsic molecular noise, (highly stochastic regimes far from the thermodynamic limit). We test our strategy with four challenging problems: a Lotka-Volterra system, a polarization system in S. cerevisiae, a genetic toggle switch, and a genetic circadian oscillator. Our method could successfully solve these problems in very reasonable computation times (often a few minutes for the first two problems) using standard low-cost hardware, showing very significant speedups with respect to recent alternative methods. The code used to obtain the results reported here is available at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5195408.",
    "title": "Global Optimization Approach for Parameter Estimation in Stochastic Dynamic Models of Biosystems.",
    "abstract": "The Calogero-Leyvraz Lagrangian framework, associated with the dynamics of a charged particle moving in a plane under the combined influence of a magnetic field as well as a frictional force, proposed by Calogero and Leyvraz, has some special features. It is endowed with a Shannon \"entropic\" type kinetic energy term. In this paper, we carry out the constructions of the 2D Lotka-Volterra replicator equations and the N=2 Relativistic Toda lattice systems using this class of Lagrangians. We take advantage of the special structure of the kinetic term and deform the kinetic energy term of the Calogero-Leyvraz Lagrangians using the \u03ba-deformed logarithm as proposed by Kaniadakis and Tsallis. This method yields the new construction of the \u03ba-deformed Lotka-Volterra replicator and relativistic Toda lattice equations.",
    "title": "The ",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model still represents the paradigm for the description of the competition in population dynamics. Despite its extreme simplicity, it does not admit an analytical solution, and for this reason, numerical integration methods are usually adopted to apply it to various fields of science. The aim of the present work is to investigate the existence of new predator-prey models sharing the broad features of the standard Lotka-Volterra model and, at the same time, offer the advantage of possessing exact analytical solutions. To this purpose, a general Hamiltonian formalism, which is suitable for treating a large class of predator-prey models in population dynamics within the same framework, has been developed as a first step. The only existing model having the property of admitting a simple exact analytical solution, is identified within the above class of models. The solution of this special predator-prey model is obtained explicitly, in terms of known elementary functions, and its main properties are studied. Finally, the generalization of this model, based on the concept of power-law competition, as well as its extension to the case of N-component competition systems, are considered.",
    "title": "Novel predator-prey model admitting exact analytical solution.",
    "abstract": "Consider a large ecosystem (foodweb) with n species, where the abundances follow a Lotka-Volterra system of coupled differential equations. We assume that each species interacts with [Formula: see text] other species and that their interaction coefficients are independent random variables. This parameter d reflects the connectance of the foodweb and the sparsity of its interactions especially if d is much smaller that n. We address the question of feasibility of the foodweb, that is the existence of an equilibrium solution of the Lotka-Volterra system with no vanishing species. We establish that for a given range of d, namely [Formula: see text] or [Formula: see text] with an extra condition on the sparsity structure, there exists an explicit threshold depending on n and d and reflecting the strength of the interactions, which guarantees the existence of a positive equilibrium as the number of species n gets large. From a mathematical point of view, the study of feasibility is equivalent to the existence of a positive solution [Formula: see text] (component-wise) to the equilibrium linear equation: [Formula: see text]where [Formula: see text] is the [Formula: see text] vector with components 1 and [Formula: see text] is a large sparse random matrix, accounting for the interactions between species. The analysis of such positive solutions essentially relies on large random matrix theory for sparse matrices and Gaussian concentration of measure. The stability of the equilibrium is established. The results in this article extend to a sparse setting the results obtained by Bizeul and Najim in Bizeul and Najim (2021).",
    "title": "Feasibility of sparse large Lotka-Volterra ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "A primary driver of species extinctions and declining biodiversity is loss and fragmentation of habitats owing to human activities. Many studies spanning a wide diversity of taxa have described the relationship between population density and habitat patch area, i.e., the density-area relationship (DAR), as positive, neutral, negative or some combination of the three. However, the mechanisms responsible for these relationships remain elusive. We employ a theoretical spatially explicit population model built upon the reaction-diffusion framework with absorbing boundary conditions to model a habitat specialist dwelling in islands of habitat surrounded by a hostile matrix. We consider patches with a convex or non-convex geometry. Our results show that a single species following logistic-type population growth exhibits a strictly positive and continuous DAR. However, when multiple asymptotically stable steady states are preset in the system, a discontinuous DAR arises. In the case of two species governed by diffusive Lotka-Volterra growth and competitive interactions, we observe that overall DAR structure can be either (1) positive, (2) positive for small areas and neutral for large, or (3) hump-shaped, i.e., positive for area below a threshold and negative for area above. Patch complexity such as non-convex geometry can cause discontinuities in DAR slope for a single species and create qualitatively different patterns in a competitive system as compared to a convex patch. We also compared our theoretical results with two empirical studies (Anolis lizards on islands and crossbills and pine squirrels in forest fragments) where the pragmatic view of DAR fails to give a mechanistic understanding of what was observed. Close qualitative agreement between theoretical and observed DAR indicates that our model gives a reasonable explanation of the mechanisms underpinning DAR found in those studies. From a conservation perspective, the DAR is crucial to the identification of valuable habitat fragments that favor high abundance and the design of a reserve for a target species. When it comes to protecting a single species, these results suggest that there is unlikely to be a simple solution and that conservation decisions should always be made on a case-by-case basis.",
    "title": "Ecological release and patch geometry can cause nonlinear density-area relationships.",
    "abstract": "Microalgae that form phytoplankton live and die in a complex microbial consortium in which they co-exist with bacteria and other microorganisms. The dynamics of species succession in the plankton depends on the interplay of these partners. Bacteria utilize substrates produced by the phototrophic algae, while algal growth can be supported by bacterial exudates. Bacteria might also use chemical mediators with algicidal properties to attack algae. To elucidate whether specific bacteria play universal or context-specific roles in the interaction with phytoplankton, we investigated the effect of cocultured bacteria on the growth of 8 microalgae. An interaction matrix revealed that the function of a given bacterium is highly dependent on the cocultured partner. We observed no universally algicidal or universally growth-promoting bacteria. The activity of bacteria can even change during the aging of an algal culture from inhibitory to stimulatory or vice versa. We further established a synthetic phytoplankton/bacteria community with the centric diatom, Coscinodiscus radiatus, and 4 phylogenetically distinctive bacterial isolates, Mameliella sp., Roseovarius sp., Croceibacter sp., and Marinobacter sp. Supported by a Lotka-Volterra model, we show that interactions within the consortium are specific and that the sum of the pairwise interactions can explain algal and bacterial growth in the community. No synergistic effects between bacteria in the presence of the diatom was observed. Our survey documents highly species-specific interactions that are dependent on algal fitness, bacterial metabolism, and community composition. This species specificity may underly the high complexity of the multi-species plankton communities observed in nature. ",
    "title": "Dynamic Diatom-Bacteria Consortia in Synthetic Plankton Communities.",
    "abstract": "To understand the mechanisms underlying species coexistence, ecologists often study invasion growth rates of theoretical and data-driven models. These growth rates correspond to average per-capita growth rates of one species with respect to an ergodic measure supporting other species. In the ecological literature, coexistence often is equated with the invasion growth rates being positive. Intuitively, positive invasion growth rates ensure that species recover from being rare. To provide a mathematically rigorous framework for this approach, we prove theorems that answer two questions: (i) When do the signs of the invasion growth rates determine coexistence? (ii) When signs are sufficient, which invasion growth rates need to be positive? We focus on deterministic models and equate coexistence with permanence, i.e., a global attractor bounded away from extinction. For models satisfying certain technical assumptions, we introduce invasion graphs where vertices correspond to proper subsets of species (communities) supporting an ergodic measure and directed edges correspond to potential transitions between communities due to invasions by missing species. These directed edges are determined by the signs of invasion growth rates. When the invasion graph is acyclic (i.e. there is no sequence of invasions starting and ending at the same community), we show that permanence is determined by the signs of the invasion growth rates. In this case, permanence is characterized by the invasibility of all [Formula: see text] communities, i.e., communities without species i where all other missing species have negative invasion growth rates. To illustrate the applicability of the results, we show that dissipative Lotka-Volterra models generically satisfy our technical assumptions and computing their invasion graphs reduces to solving systems of linear equations. We also apply our results to models of competing species with pulsed resources or sharing a predator that exhibits switching behavior. Open problems for both deterministic and stochastic models are discussed. Our results highlight the importance of using concepts about community assembly to study coexistence.",
    "title": "Permanence via invasion graphs: incorporating community assembly into modern coexistence theory.",
    "abstract": "A sufficiently advanced extraterrestrial civilization can send out a swarm of self-replicating probes for space exploration. Given the fast-growing number of such a probe, even if there is only one extraterrestrial civilization sending out such probes in the Milky Way galaxy, we should still expect to see them. The fact that we do not consist part of the Fermi paradox. The suggestion that self-replicating probes will eventually mutate to consume their progenitors and therefore significantly reduce the number of total probes has been investigated and dismissed in the literature. In this work, we revisit this question with a more realistic Lotka-Volterra model and show that mutated probes would drive the progenitor probes into \"extinction,\" thereby replacing them to spread throughout the galaxy. Thus, the efficiency of mutated probes in reducing the total number of self-replicating probes is even less than previously thought. As part of the analysis, we also suggest that, somewhat counter-intuitively, in designing self-replicating probes, one should not program them to stop replicating when sufficient mutation causes the probes to fail to recognize the progenitor probes as \"self.\"",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra models for extraterrestrial self-replicating probes.",
    "abstract": "Mounting evidence suggests that plant-soil feedbacks (PSF) may determine plant community structure. However, we still have a poor understanding of how predictions from short-term PSF experiments compare with outcomes of long-term field experiments involving competing plants. We conducted a reciprocal greenhouse experiment to examine how the growth of prairie grass species depended on the soil communities cultured by conspecific or heterospecific plant species in the field. The source soil came from monocultures in a long-term competition experiment (LTCE; Cedar Creek Ecosystem Science Reserve, MN, USA). Within the LTCE, six species of perennial prairie grasses were grown in monocultures or in eight pairwise competition plots for 12\u00a0years under conditions of low or high soil nitrogen availability. In six cases, one species clearly excluded the other; in two cases, the pair appeared to coexist. In year 15, we gathered soil from all 12 soil types (monocultures of six species by two nitrogen levels) and grew seedlings of all six species in each soil type for 7\u00a0weeks. Using biomass estimates from this greenhouse experiment, we predicted coexistence or competitive exclusion using pairwise PSFs, as derived by Bever and colleagues, and compared model predictions to observed outcomes within the LTCE. Pairwise PSFs among the species pairs ranged from negative, which is predicted to promote coexistence, to positive, which is predicted to promote competitive exclusion. However, these short-term PSF predictions bore no systematic resemblance to the actual outcomes of competition observed in the LTCE. Other forces may have more strongly influenced the competitive interactions or critical assumptions that underlie the PSF predictions may not have been met. Importantly, the pairwise PSF score derived by Bever et al. is only valid when the two species exhibit an internal equilibrium, corresponding to the Lotka-Volterra competition outcomes of stable coexistence and founder control. Predicting the other two scenarios, competitive exclusion by either species irrespective of initial conditions, requires measuring biomass in uncultured soil, which is methodologically challenging. Subject to several caveats that we discuss, our results call into question whether long-term competitive outcomes in the field can be predicted from the results of short-term PSF experiments.",
    "title": "Short-term plant-soil feedback experiment fails to predict outcome of competition observed in long-term field experiment.",
    "abstract": "AbstractDisturbances are important determinants of diversity, and the combination of their aspects (e.g., disturbance intensity, frequency) can result in complex diversity patterns. Here, we leverage an important approach to classifying disturbances in terms of temporal span to understand the implications for species coexistence: pulse disturbances are acute and discrete events, while press disturbances occur continuously through time. We incorporate the resultant mortality rates into a common framework involving disturbance frequency and intensity. Press disturbances can be encoded into models in two distinct ways, and we show that the appropriateness of each depends on the type of data available. Using this framework, we compare the effects of pulse versus press disturbance on both asymptotic and transient dynamics of a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition model to understand how they engage with equalizing mechanisms of coexistence. We show that press and pulse disturbances differ in transient behavior, though their asymptotic diversity patterns are similar. Our work shows that these differences depend on how the underlying disturbance aspects interact and that the two ways of characterizing press disturbances can lead to contrasting interpretations of disturbance-diversity relationships. Our work demonstrates how theoretical modeling can strategically guide and help the interpretation of empirical work.",
    "title": "Pulse and Press Disturbances Have Different Effects on Transient Community Dynamics.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra (LV) dynamics is investigated in the framework of the Weyl-Wigner (WW) quantum mechanics extended to one-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, H(x,k) constrained by the \u2202^{2}H/\u2202x\u2202k=0 condition. Supported by the Heisenberg-Weyl noncommutative algebra, where [x,k]=i, the canonical variables x and k are interpreted in terms of the LV variables, y=e^{-x} and z=e^{-k}, eventually associated with the number of individuals in a closed competitive dynamics: the so-called prey-predator system. The WW framework provides the ground for identifying how classical and quantum evolution coexist at different scales and for quantifying quantum analog effects. Through the results from the associated Wigner currents, (non-)Liouvillian and stationary properties are described for thermodynamic and Gaussian quantum ensembles in order to account for the corrections due to quantum features over the classical phase-space pattern yielded by the Hamiltonian description of the LV dynamics. In particular, for Gaussian statistical ensembles, the Wigner flow framework provides the exact profile for the quantum modifications over the classical LV phase-space trajectories so that Gaussian quantum ensembles can be interpreted as an adequate Hilbert space state configuration for comparing quantum and classical regimes. The generality of the framework developed here extends the boundaries of the understanding of quantumlike effects on competitive microscopical biosystems.",
    "title": "Noncommutative phase-space Lotka-Volterra dynamics: The quantum analog.",
    "abstract": "Gain switching is a simple technique for generating short pulses through direct modulation of optical gain in lasers. Its mathematical description requires the connection between a slowly varying, low intensity solution and a short, high intensity solution. Previous studies constructed a complete pulse by patching these two partial solutions at an arbitrary point in the phase plane. Here, we develop an asymptotic theory in which slow and fast solutions are matched together through a third intermediate solution. The mathematical analysis of the laser problem benefits from a preliminary study of the Lotka-Volterra equations\u00a0when the two competing populations exhibit different timescales. Since this particular limit has never been explored, we first analyze the Lotka-Volterra equations\u00a0before applying the theory to the more complex laser equations. We show a significant effect of the transition layer on the pulse intensity. Last, we discuss the case of sustained laser pulses generated through the Q-switching technique and show how their description may benefit from our theory.",
    "title": "Analytical theory of gain-switched laser pulses: From Lotka-Volterra slow-fast dynamics to passive Q switching.",
    "abstract": "Unraveling the network of interactions in ecological communities is a daunting task. Common methods to infer interspecific interactions from cross-sectional data are based on co-occurrence measures. For instance, interactions in the human microbiome are often inferred from correlations between the abundances of bacterial phylogenetic groups across subjects. We tested whether such correlation-based methods are indeed reliable for inferring interaction networks. For this purpose, we simulated bacterial communities by means of the generalized Lotka-Volterra model, with variation in model parameters representing variability among hosts. Our results show that correlations can be indicative for presence of bacterial interactions, but only when measurement noise is low relative to the variation in interaction strengths between hosts. Indication of interaction was affected by type of interaction network, process noise and sampling under non-equilibrium conditions. The sign of a correlation mostly coincided with the nature of the strongest pairwise interaction, but this is not necessarily the case. For instance, under rare conditions of identical interaction strength, we found that competitive and exploitative interactions can result in positive as well as negative correlations. Thus, cross-sectional abundance data carry limited information on specific interaction types. Correlations in abundance may hint at interactions but require independent validation.",
    "title": "Species abundance correlations carry limited information about microbial network interactions.",
    "abstract": "Random matrix theory has been applied to food web stability for decades, implying elliptical eigenvalue spectra and that large food webs should be unstable. Here we allow feasible food webs to self-assemble within an evolutionary process, using simple Lotka-Volterra equations and several elementary interaction types. We show that, as complex food webs evolve under [Formula: see text] invasion attempts, the community matrix spectra become bi-modal, rather than falling onto elliptical geometries. Our results raise questions as to the applicability of random matrix theory to the analysis of food web steady states.",
    "title": "The geometry of evolved community matrix spectra.",
    "abstract": "Community ecology typically assumes that competitive exclusion and species coexistence are unaffected by evolution on the time scale of ecological dynamics. However, recent studies suggest that rapid evolution operating concurrently with competition may enable species coexistence. Such findings necessitate general theory that incorporates the coexistence contributions of eco-evolutionary processes in parallel with purely ecological mechanisms and provides metrics for quantifying the role of evolution in shaping competitive outcomes in both modelling and empirical contexts. To foster the development of such theory, here we extend the interpretation of the two principal metrics of modern coexistence theory-niche and competitive ability differences-to systems where competitors evolve. We define eco-evolutionary versions of these metrics by considering how invading and resident species adapt to conspecific and heterospecific competitors. We show that the eco-evolutionary niche and competitive ability differences are sums of ecological and evolutionary processes, and that they accurately predict the potential for stable coexistence in previous theoretical studies of eco-evolutionary dynamics. Finally, we show how this theory frames recent empirical assessments of rapid evolution effects on species coexistence, and how empirical work and theory on species coexistence and eco-evolutionary dynamics can be further integrated.",
    "title": "Integrating eco-evolutionary dynamics and modern coexistence theory.",
    "abstract": "Microbial co-occurrence network analysis is being widely used for data exploration in plant microbiome research. Still, challenges lie in how well these microbial networks represent natural microbial communities and how well we can interpret and extract eco-evolutionary insights from the networks. Although many technical solutions have been proposed, in this perspective, we touch on the grave problem of kingdom-level bias in network representation and interpretation. We underscore the eco-evolutionary significance of using cross-kingdom (bacterial-fungal) co-occurrence networks to increase the network's representability of natural communities. To do so, we demonstrate how ecosystem-level interpretation of plant microbiome evolution changes with and without multi-kingdom analysis. Then, to overcome oversimplified interpretation of the networks stemming from the stereotypical dichotomy between bacteria and fungi, we recommend three avenues for ecological interpretation: (1) understanding dynamics and mechanisms of co-occurrence networks through generalized Lotka-Volterra and consumer-resource models, (2) finding alternative ecological explanations for individual negative and positive fungal-bacterial edges, and (3) connecting cross-kingdom networks to abiotic and biotic (host) environments.",
    "title": "Cross-kingdom co-occurrence networks in the plant microbiome: Importance and ecological interpretations.",
    "abstract": "We introduce a dynamical system to model the complex interaction between COVID-19 and economic activity. The model introduces some novelties not accounted by SIR-like models. The equilibrium of the system is an unstable focus, with fluctuations having increasing size and periodicity. Numerical simulations of the model produce waves which reproduce the pandemic dynamics. In observing the stylized facts linking economics and pandemic and stating related reasonable assumptions, we obtain a Lotka-Volterra co-dynamics. This outcome is confirmed by extensive simulations. The outcomes obtained qualitatively replicate some important stylized facts deepening the knowledge about the role of some parameters in their origin and eventually in their shaping.",
    "title": "The complex interplay between COVID-19 and economic activity.",
    "abstract": "The success of the current wave of artificial intelligence can be partly attributed to deep neural networks, which have proven to be very effective in learning complex patterns from large datasets with minimal human intervention. However, it is difficult to train these models on complex dynamical systems from data alone due to their low data efficiency and sensitivity to hyperparameters and initialisation. This work demonstrates that injection of partially known information at an intermediate layer in a DNN can improve model accuracy, reduce model uncertainty, and yield improved convergence during the training. The value of these physics-guided neural networks has been demonstrated by learning the dynamics of a wide variety of nonlinear dynamical systems represented by five well-known equations in nonlinear systems theory: the Lotka-Volterra, Duffing, Van der Pol, Lorenz, and Henon-Heiles systems.",
    "title": "Physics guided neural networks for modelling of non-linear dynamics.",
    "abstract": "With the proposal of China's high-quality development strategy, how to promote regional stability and coordinated development based on a deep understanding of the main contradictions and changes in China's society has become the focus of research. High-quality development is a brand-new coordinated development concept, which aims to optimize the economic structure, transform the development model, enhance the development momentum, and take innovation as the primary driving force. How to promote the coordinated development of this region has become a hot issue considered by scholars. The Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region is the capital economic circle of China, and the purpose of this study is to promote the coordinated and stable development of the region. On this premise, this paper firstly adopts the composite Grey Lotka-Volterra (GLV) model and Fractional GM(1,1) (FGM(1,1)) model to research Water Resources system-Economic System-Industrial System-Technology Innovation System in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. Secondly, by analyzing the research data, it is found that the relationship between the system is very complex, and the stability calculation results are all below 0. Then, the analysis of the research results shows that there is no obvious coordination among the three regions, and they have not yet reached a state of mutual promotion and stable and coordinated development. Finally, four suggestions are put forward for the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. This can not only provide direction for the future development of the region but also have reference significance for the development of other regions. Further, accelerate the coordination and unity of all factors of production in China and promote China's development at a deeper and higher level.",
    "title": "Application of Grey Lotka-Volterra Model in Water-Economy-Industry-Technology Innovation System in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region.",
    "abstract": "Listeria monocytogenes is a significant foodborne health hazard in many products and may survive and grow when making fermented meat sausages. The objective of this study was to investigate the competition between lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and L. monocytogenes during simultaneous fermentation and drying (SFD) of meat sausages. Sausages made from irradiated ground beef (90% lean), salt, sugar, and sodium nitrite were inoculated with a 4-stain cocktail of LAB (2 Lactobacillus plantarum and 2 Lb. brevis strains) and a 5-strain cocktail of L. monocytogenes, individually or in combination, and incubated (30\u00a0\u00b0C, relative humidity 76%) for 5\u00a0days to undergo SFD. The changes in the populations of LAB and L. monocytogenes were monitored to determine the growth kinetics and examine the competitive growth between the two. L. monocytogenes grew in the sausage samples unhindered without LAB but was suppressed by LAB during SFD. The interaction between LAB and L. monocytogenes could be described by a modified Lotka-Volterra equation. The decreases of pH and a",
    "title": "Growth competition between lactic acid bacteria and Listeria monocytogenes during simultaneous fermentation and drying of meat sausages - A mathematical modeling.",
    "abstract": "We study the probability of fixation in a stochastic two-species competition model. By identifying a naturally occurring fast timescale, we derive an approximation to the associated backward Kolmogorov equation that allows us to obtain an explicit closed form solution for the probability of fixation of either species. We use our result to study fitness tradeoff strategies and show that, despite some tradeoffs having nearly negligible effects on the corresponding deterministic dynamics, they can have large implications for the outcome of the stochastic system.",
    "title": "Fixation in the stochastic Lotka-Volterra model with small fitness trade-offs.",
    "abstract": "In Patagonia (Argentina) two non-native vespid wasps became established in the last decades. Vespula germanica was first detected in 1980, while V. vulgaris arrived some 30\u00a0years later. Both species can have a strong negative impact on agro-industrial economic activities, the natural environment, and outdoor human activities. Biological invasions may be influenced negatively by the degree of interaction with the resident native community and alien species already present. The sequential arrival and coexistence of Vespula wasps in Argentina for several years allows us to understand key questions of invasion ecology. Additionally, recognizing the outcome of the invasion by vespids in Patagonia, a region lacking native social wasps, may help plan species-focused mitigation and control strategies. We explored the role of competition in terms of invasion success, and the strategies that promote coexistence. Two possible scenarios, using niche overlap indices and isocline equations, were proposed to determine competition coefficients. Using a simple mathematical modeling framework, based on field collected data, we show that food resources do not play a central role in competitive interaction. The competition coefficients obtained from the equations were different from those inferred from the overlap indices (0.53 and 0.54-0.076 and 0.197, respectively). Together, these findings suggest that no matter the arrival order, V. vulgaris, always reaches higher densities than V. germanica when both species invade new regions. Our work contributes to further our understanding on the worldwide invasion processes deployed by these two eusocial insects.",
    "title": "Long-term coexistence of two invasive vespid wasps in NW Patagonia (Argentina).",
    "abstract": "Early warning signals (EWS) are phenomenological tools that have been proposed as predictors of the collapse of biological systems. Although a growing body of work has shown the utility of EWS based on either statistics derived from abundance data or shifts in phenotypic traits such as body size, so far this work has largely focused on single species populations. However, to predict reliably the future state of ecological systems, which inherently could consist of multiple species, understanding how reliable such signals are in a community context is critical. Here, reconciling quantitative trait evolution and Lotka-Volterra equations, which allow us to track both abundance and mean traits, we simulate the collapse of populations embedded in mutualistic and multi-trophic predator-prey communities. Using these simulations and warning signals derived from both population- and community-level data, we showed the utility of abundance-based EWS, as well as metrics derived from stability-landscape theory (e.g. width and depth of the basin of attraction), were fundamentally linked. Thus, the depth and width of such stability-landscape curves could be used to identify which species should exhibit the strongest EWS of collapse. The probability a species displays both trait and abundance-based EWS was dependent on its position in a community, with some species able to act as indicator species. In addition, our results also demonstrated that in general trait-based EWS were less reliable in comparison with abundance-based EWS in forecasting species collapses in our simulated communities. Furthermore, community-level abundance-based EWS were fairly reliable in comparison with their species-level counterparts in forecasting species-level collapses. Our study suggests a holistic framework that combines abundance-based EWS and metrics derived from stability-landscape theory that may help in forecasting species loss in a community context.",
    "title": "Community structure determines the predictability of population collapse.",
    "abstract": "Following previous works about integro-differential equations of parabolic type modelling the Darwinian evolution of a population, we study a two-population system in the cooperative case. First, we provide a theoretical study of the limit of rare mutations and we prove that the limit is described by a constrained Hamilton-Jacobi equation. This equation is given by an eigenvalue of a matrix which accounts for the diffusion parameters and the coefficients of the system. Then, we focus on a particular application: the understanding of a phenomenon called Adaptation to DNA damage. In this framework, we provide several numerical simulations to illustrate our theoretical results and investigate mathematical and biological questions.",
    "title": "Adaptation to DNA Damage, an Asymptotic Approach for a Cooperative Non-local System.",
    "abstract": "Predicting the dynamics and functions of microbiomes constructed from the bottom-up is a key challenge in exploiting them to our benefit. Current models based on ecological theory fail to capture complex community behaviors due to higher order interactions, do not scale well with increasing complexity and in considering multiple functions. We develop and apply a long short-term memory (LSTM) framework to advance our understanding of community assembly and health-relevant metabolite production using a synthetic human gut community. A mainstay of recurrent neural networks, the LSTM learns a high dimensional data-driven non-linear dynamical system model. We show that the LSTM model can outperform the widely used generalized Lotka-Volterra model based on ecological theory. We build methods to decipher microbe-microbe and microbe-metabolite interactions from an otherwise black-box model. These methods highlight that Actinobacteria, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria are significant drivers of metabolite production whereas ",
    "title": "Recurrent neural networks enable design of multifunctional synthetic human gut microbiome dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Technology innovation has become an important driving force of economic and social development and has received wide attention from academics. Most scholars mainly take technology innovation as an overall variable to explore its impact on the economy and society. The main contribution of this study is to open the black box of technology innovation and introduce the lotka-Volterra model to explore the internal structure of technology innovation in the Chinese high-tech industry and to analyze the ecological relationships, evolutionary trends, equilibrium states of six technology innovation species including independent innovation (II), technology import (TI), research & development (RD), technology renovation (TR), foreign technology acquisition (FTA), and domestic technology purchase (DTP). The results of the study show that, First, the ecological relationship between prey and predator is observed between RD and TR, DTP and FTA, and II and TI. Second, no equilibrium state is observed between TD and TF and II and TI. Third, an unstable equilibrium state is observed between RD and TR.",
    "title": "Analyzing the ecological relations of technology innovation of the Chinese high-tech industry based on the Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Manipulating soil metabolism through heavy inoculation with microbes is feasible if organic wastes can be utilized as the substrate for growth and vector as a fertilizer. This, however, requires organisms active in both digestate and soil (generalists). Here, we present a dual enrichment strategy to enrich and isolate such generalists among N",
    "title": "A Dual Enrichment Strategy Provides Soil- and Digestate-Competent Nitrous Oxide-Respiring Bacteria for Mitigating Climate Forcing in Agriculture.",
    "abstract": "Almost every biomedical systems analysis requires early decisions regarding the choice of the most suitable representations to be used. De facto the most prevalent choice is a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). This framework is very popular because it is flexible and fairly easy to use. It is also supported by an enormous array of stand-alone programs for analysis, including many distinct numerical solvers that are implemented in the main programming languages. Having selected ODEs, the modeler must then choose a mathematical format for the equations. This selection is not trivial as nearly unlimited options exist and there is seldom objective guidance. The typical choices include ad hoc representations, default models like mass-action or Lotka-Volterra equations, and generic approximations. Within the realm of approximations, linear models are typically successful for analyses of engineered systems, but they are not as appropriate for biomedical phenomena, which often display nonlinear features such as saturation, threshold effects or limit cycle oscillations, and possibly even chaos. Power-law approximations are simple but overcome these limitations. They are the key ingredient of Biochemical Systems Theory (BST), which uses ODEs exclusively containing power-law representations for all processes within a model. BST models cover a vast repertoire of nonlinear responses and, at the same time, have structural properties that are advantageous for a wide range of analyses. Nonetheless, as all ODE models, the BST approach has limitations. In particular, it is not always straightforward to account for genuine discreteness, time delays, and stochastic processes. As a new option, we therefore propose here an alternative to BST in the form of discrete Biochemical Systems Theory (dBST). dBST models have the same generality and practicality as their BST-ODE counterparts, but they are readily implemented even in situations where ODEs struggle. As a case study, we illustrate dBST applied to the dynamics of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a signal transduction system that simultaneously involves time delays and stochasticity.",
    "title": "Discrete Biochemical Systems Theory.",
    "abstract": "Understanding the conditions of feasibility and stability in ecological systems is a major challenge in theoretical ecology. The seminal work of May in 1972 and recent developments based on the theory of random matrices have shown the existence of emergent universal patterns of both stability and feasibility in ecological dynamics. However, only a few studies have investigated the role of delay coupled with population dynamics in the emergence of feasible and stable states. In this work, we study the effects of delay on generalized Loka-Volterra population dynamics of several interacting species in closed ecological environments. First, we investigate the relation between feasibility and stability of the modelled ecological community in the absence of delay and find a simple analytical relation when intra-species interactions are dominant. We then show how, by increasing the time delay, there is a transition in the stability phases of the population dynamics: from an equilibrium state to a stable non-point attractor phase. We calculate analytically the critical delay of that transition and show that it is in excellent agreement with numerical simulations. Finally, following a similar approach to characterizing stability in empirical studies, we investigate the coefficient of variation, which quantifies the magnitude of population fluctuations. We show that in the oscillatory regime induced by the delay, the variability at community level decreases for increasing diversity. This article is part of the theme issue 'Emergent phenomena in complex physical and socio-technical systems: from cells to societies'.",
    "title": "Effect of delay on the emergent stability patterns in generalized Lotka-Volterra ecological dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Today we can use physics to describe in great detail many of the phenomena intervening in the process of life. But no analogous unified description exists for the phenomenon of life itself. In spite of their complexity, all living creatures are out of equilibrium chemical systems sharing four fundamental properties: they (1) handle information, (2) metabolize, (3) self-reproduce and (4) evolve. This small number of features, which in terran life are implemented with biochemistry, point to an underlying simplicity that can be taken as a guide to motivate and implement a theoretical physics style unified description of life using tools from the non-equilibrium physical-chemistry of extended systems. Representing a system with general rules is a well stablished approach to model building and unification in physics, and we do this here to provide an abstract mathematical description of life. We start by reviewing the work of previous authors showing how the properties in the above list can be individually represented with stochastic reaction-diffusion kinetics using polynomial reaction terms. These include \"switches\" and computation, the kinetic representation of autocatalysis, Turing instability and adaptation in the presence of both deterministic and stochastic environments. Thinking of these properties as existing on a space-time lattice each of whose nodes are subject to a common mass-action kinetics compatible with the above, leads to a very rich dynamical system which, just as natural life, unifies the above properties and can therefore be interpreted as a high level or \"outside-in\" theoretical physics representation of life. Taking advantage of currently available advanced computational techniques and hardware, we compute the phase plane for this dynamical system both in the deterministic and stochastic cases. We do simulations and show numerically how the system works. We review how to extract useful information that can be mapped into emergent physical phenomena and attributes of importance in life such as the presence of a \"membrane\" or the time evolution of an individual system's negentropy or mass. Once these are available, we illustrate how to perform some basic phenomenology based on the model's numerical predictions. Applying the above to the idealization of the general Cell Division Cycle (CDC) given almost 25 years ago by Hunt and Murray, we show from the numerical simulations how this system executes a form of the idealized CDC. We also briefly discuss various simulations that show how other properties of living systems such as migration towards more favorable regions or the emergence of effective Lotka-Volterra populations are accounted for by this general and unified view from the \"top\" of the physics of life. The paper ends with some discussion, conclusions, and comments on some selected directions for future research. The mathematical techniques and powerful simulation tools we use are all well established and presented in a \"didactical\" style. We include a very rich but concise SI where the numerical details are thoroughly discussed in a way that anyone interested in studying or extending the results would be able to do so.",
    "title": "Unified representation of Life's basic properties by a 3-species Stochastic Cubic Autocatalytic Reaction-Diffusion system of equations.",
    "abstract": "Recent studies have highlighted the importance of ecological interactions in dysbiosis of gut microbiota, but few focused on their role in antibiotic-induced perturbations. We used the data from the CEREMI trial in which 22 healthy volunteers received a 3-day course of ceftriaxone or cefotaxime antibiotics. Fecal samples were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene profiling, and the total bacterial counts were determined in each sample by flux cytometry. As the gut exposure to antibiotics could not be experimentally measured despite a marked impact on the gut microbiota, it was reconstructed using the counts of susceptible Escherichia coli. The dynamics of absolute counts of bacterial families were analyzed using a generalized Lotka-Volterra equations and nonlinear mixed effect modeling. Bacterial interactions were studied using a stepwise approach. Two negative and three positive interactions were identified. Introducing bacterial interactions in the modeling approach better fitted the data, and provided different estimates of antibiotic effects on each bacterial family than a simple model without interaction. The time to return to 95% of the baseline counts was significantly longer in ceftriaxone-treated individuals than in cefotaxime-treated subjects for two bacterial families: Akkermansiaceae (median [range]: 11.3\u2009days [0; 180.0] vs. 4.2\u2009days [0; 25.6], p\u00a0=\u00a00.027) and Tannerellaceae (13.7\u2009days [6.1; 180.0] vs. 6.2\u2009days [5.4; 17.3], p\u00a0=\u00a00.003). Taking bacterial interaction as well as individual antibiotic exposure profile into account improves the analysis of antibiotic-induced dysbiosis.",
    "title": "Modeling the bacterial dynamics in the gut microbiota following an antibiotic-induced perturbation.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of an ecological community can be described at different focal scales of the species, such as individual states or the population level. More detailed descriptions of ecological dynamics offer more information, but produce more complex models that are difficult to analyze. Adequately controlling the model complexity and the availability of multiple descriptions of the concerned dynamics maximizes our understanding of ecological dynamics. One of the central goals of ecological studies is to develop links between multiple descriptions of an ecological community. In this article, starting from a nonlinear state-level description of an ecological community (generalized McKendrick-von Foerster model), role-level and population-level descriptions (Lotka-Volterra model) are derived in a consistent manner. The role-level description covers a wider range of situations than the population-level description. However, using the established connections, it is demonstrated that the population-level description can be used to predict the equilibrium status of the role-level description. This approach connects state-, role-, and population-level dynamics consistently, and offers a justification for the multiple choices of model description.",
    "title": "Linking multi-level population dynamics: state, role, and population.",
    "abstract": "Over the years, several global models have been proposed to forecast global sustainability, provide a framework for sustainable policy-making, or to study sustainability across the FEW nexus. An integrated model is presented here with components like food-web ecosystem dynamics, microeconomics components, including energy producers and industries, and various socio-techno-economic policy dimensions. The model consists of 15 compartments representing a simplified ecological food-web set in a macroeconomic framework along with a rudimentary legal system. The food-web is modeled by Lotka-Volterra type expressions, whereas the economy is represented by a price-setting model wherein firms and human households attempt to maximize their economic well-being. The model development is done using global-scale data for stocks and flows of food, energy, and water, which were used to parameterize this model. Appropriate proportions for some of the ecological compartments like herbivores and carnivores are used to model those compartments. The modeling of the human compartment was carried out using historical data for the global mortality rate. Historical data were used to parameterize the model. Data for key variables like the human population, GDP growth, greenhouse gases like CO2 and NOX emissions were used to validate the model. The model was then used to make long-term forecasts and to study global sustainability over an extended time. The purpose of this study was to create a global model which can provide techno-socio-economic policy solutions for global sustainability. Further, scenario analysis was conducted for cases where the human population or human consumption increases rapidly to observe the impact on the sustainability of the planet over the next century. The results indicated that the planet can support increased population if the per capita consumption levels do not rise. However, increased consumption resulted in exhaustion of natural resources and increased the CO2 emissions by a multiple of 100.",
    "title": "Integrated model for food-energy-water (FEW) nexus to study global sustainability: The main generalized global sustainability model (GGSM).",
    "abstract": "Recent studies have brought forward the critical role of emergent properties in shaping microbial communities and the ecosystems of which they are a part. Emergent properties-patterns or functions that cannot be deduced linearly from the properties of the constituent parts-underlie important ecological characteristics such as resilience, niche expansion and spatial self-organization. While it is clear that emergent properties are a consequence of interactions within the community, their non-linear nature makes mathematical modelling imperative for establishing the quantitative link between community structure and function. As the need for conservation and rational modulation of microbial ecosystems is increasingly apparent, so is the consideration of the benefits and limitations of the approaches to model emergent properties. Here we review ecosystem modelling approaches from the viewpoint of emergent properties. We consider the scope, advantages and limitations of Lotka-Volterra, consumer-resource, trait-based, individual-based and genome-scale metabolic models. Future efforts in this research area would benefit from capitalizing on the complementarity between these approaches towards enabling rational modulation of complex microbial ecosystems.",
    "title": "Ecological modelling approaches for predicting emergent properties in microbial communities.",
    "abstract": "The water-energy-food nexus is a complex system where balancing the trade-offs across water, energy, and food sectors is especially difficult in resource-deficient areas. The Yellow River Basin is an area in which water shortages lead to conflicts among water, energy, and food resources. Thus, investigating the evolution state and spatial characteristics of the water-energy-food nexus in the Yellow River Basin is essential for the management of resources and sustainable development orientation of the region's water-energy-food nexus system. This study proposed an integrated assessment framework by using synergy theory and the integrated index system method. The improved Lotka-Volterra symbiotic model was used to elucidate the development and synergy evolution status of the water-energy-food nexus system in prefecture-level cities in the Yellow River Basin between 2004 and 2019. The results show that the order degree of the water and energy subsystems in the Yellow River Basin increased by an average of 0.12 and 0.42, on average respectively, from 2004 to 2019, whereas that of the food subsystem only increased by an average of 0.004 compared to the initial year. Furthermore, most prefecture-level cities experienced subsystem degradation of one or two subsystems during the evolution of the water-energy-food nexus system. Based on the uniqueness and evolution process of each city, there are eight possibilities for system evolution and three types of feedback state between each pair of subsystems, which may lead to a certain spatial aggregation. Additionally, the interaction and competition states are more common than synergy states in the water-energy-food nexus system of the Yellow River Basin. This study provides an important basis and suggestions for the internal relationship and sustainable orientation of water-energy-food nexus systems in such water-deficient areas.",
    "title": "Development and synergetic evolution of the water-energy-food nexus system in the Yellow River Basin.",
    "abstract": "In this manuscript, we systematically investigate projective difference synchronization between identical generalized Lotka-Volterra biological models of integer order using active control and parameter identification methods. We employ Lyapunov stability theory (LST) to construct the desired controllers, which ensures the global asymptotical convergence of a trajectory following synchronization errors. In addition, simulations were conducted in a MATLAB environment to illustrate the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed techniques. Exceptionally, both experimental and theoretical results are in excellent agreement. Comparative analysis between the considered strategy and previously published research findings is presented. Lastly, we describe an application of our considered combination difference synchronization in secure communication through numerical simulations.",
    "title": "An Effective Synchronization Approach to Stability Analysis for Chaotic Generalized Lotka-Volterra Biological Models Using Active and Parameter Identification Methods.",
    "abstract": "Sparse model identification enables the discovery of nonlinear dynamical systems purely from data; however, this approach is sensitive to noise, especially in the low-data limit. In this work, we leverage the statistical approach of bootstrap aggregating (bagging) to robustify the sparse identification of\u00a0the nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) algorithm. First, an ensemble of SINDy models is identified from subsets of limited and noisy data. The aggregate model statistics are then used to produce inclusion probabilities of the candidate functions, which enables uncertainty quantification and probabilistic forecasts. We apply this ensemble-SINDy (E-SINDy) algorithm to several synthetic and real-world datasets and demonstrate substantial improvements to the accuracy and robustness of model discovery from extremely noisy and limited data. For example, E-SINDy uncovers partial differential equations models from data with more than twice as much measurement noise as has been previously reported. Similarly, E-SINDy learns the Lotka Volterra dynamics from remarkably limited data of yearly lynx and hare pelts collected from 1900 to 1920. E-SINDy is computationally efficient, with similar scaling as standard SINDy. Finally, we show that ensemble statistics from E-SINDy can be exploited for active learning and improved model predictive control.",
    "title": "Ensemble-SINDy: Robust sparse model discovery in the low-data, high-noise limit, with active learning and control.",
    "abstract": "We derive an alternative expression for a delayed logistic equation in which the rate of change in the population involves a growth rate that depends on the population density during an earlier time period. In our formulation, the delay in the growth term is consistent with the rate of instantaneous decline in the population given by the model. Our formulation is a modification of Arino et al. (J Theor Biol 241(1):109-119, 2006) by taking the intraspecific competition between the adults and juveniles into account. We provide a complete global analysis showing that no sustained oscillations are possible. A threshold giving the interface between extinction and survival is determined in terms of the parameters in the model. The theory of chain transitive sets and the comparison theorem for cooperative delay differential equations are used to determine the global dynamics of the model. We extend our delayed logistic equation to a system modeling the competition between two species. For the competition model, we provide results on local stability, bifurcation diagrams, and adaptive dynamics. Assuming that the species with shorter delay produces fewer offspring at a time than the species with longer delay, we show that there is a critical value, [Formula: see text], such that the evolutionary trend is for the delay to approach [Formula: see text].",
    "title": "Population growth and competition models with decay and competition consistent delay.",
    "abstract": "There is rich literature on using continuous-time and discrete-time models for studying population dynamics of consumer-resource interactions. A key focus of this contribution is to systematically compare between the two modeling formalisms the stabilizing/destabilizing impacts of diverse ecological processes that result in a density-dependent consumer attack rate. Inspired by the Nicholson-Bailey/Lotka-Volterra models in discrete-time/continuous-time, respectively, we consider host-parasitoid interactions with an arbitrary parasitoid attack rate that is a function of both the host/parasitoid population densities. Our analysis shows that a Type II functional response is stabilizing in both modeling frameworks only when combined with other mechanisms, such as mutual interference between parasitoids. A Type III functional response is by itself stabilizing, but the extent of attack-rate acceleration needed is much higher in the discrete-time framework, and its stability regime expands with increasing host reproduction. Finally, our results show that while mutual parasitoid interference can stabilize population dynamics, cooperation between parasitoids to handle hosts is destabilizing in both frameworks. In summary, our comparative analysis systematically characterizes diverse ecological processes driving stable population dynamics in discrete-time and continuous-time consumer-resource models.",
    "title": "A comparative approach to stabilizing mechanisms between discrete- and continuous-time consumer-resource models.",
    "abstract": "We propose a new tool to deal with autonomous ODE systems for which the solution to the Hamiltonian inverse problem is not available in the usual, classical sense. Our approach allows a class of formally conserved quantities to be constructed for dynamical systems showing dissipative behavior and other, more general, phenomena. The only ingredients of this new framework are Hamiltonian geometric mechanics (to sustain certain desirable properties) and the direct reformulation of the notion of the derivative along the phase curve. This seemingly odd and inconsistent marriage of apparently remote ideas leads to the existence of the generator of motion for every autonomous ODE system. Having constructed the generator, we obtained the Lie invariance of the symplectic form \u03c9 for free. Various examples are presented, ranging from mathematics, classical mechanics, and thermodynamics, to chemical kinetics and population dynamics in biology. Applications of these ideas to geometric integration techniques of numerical analysis are suggested.",
    "title": "Para-Hamiltonian form for General Autonomous ODE Systems: Introductory Results.",
    "abstract": "This paper considers a nonlinear dynamical model of an ecosystem, which has been established through combining the classical Lotka-Volterra model with the classic SIR model. This nonlinear system consists of a generalist predator that subsists on two prey species in which disease is becoming endemic in one of them. The dynamical analysis methods prove that the system has a chaotic attractor and extreme multistability behavior, where there are infinitely many attractors that coexist under certain conditions. The occurrence of extreme multistability demonstrates the high sensitivity of the system for the initial conditions, which means that tiny changes in the original prey species could enlarge and be widespread, and that could confirm through studying the complexity of the time series of the system's variables. Simulation results of the sample entropy algorithm show that the changes in the system's variables expand over time. It is reasonable now to consider the endemic in the prey species of the system could evolve to be pandemic such as COVID-19. Consequently, our results could provide a foresight about the unpredictability of the COVID-19 outbreak in its original host species as well as after the transmission to other species such as humans.",
    "title": "In search of COVID-19 transmission through an infected prey.",
    "abstract": "We show that under the assumption of weak frequency-dependent selection a wide class of population dynamical models can be analysed using perturbation theory. The inner solution corresponds to the ecological dynamics, where to zeroth order, the genotype frequencies remain constant. The outer solution provides the evolutionary dynamics and corresponds, to zeroth order, to a generalisation of the replicator equation. We apply this method to a model of public goods dynamics and construct, using matched asymptotic expansions, a composite solution valid for all times. We also analyse a Lotka-Volterra model of predator competition and show that to zeroth order the fraction of wild-type predators follows a replicator equation with a constant selection coefficient given by the predator death rate. For both models, we investigate how the error between approximate solutions and the solution to the full model depend on the order of the approximation and show using numerical comparison, for [Formula: see text] and 2, that the error scales according to [Formula: see text], where [Formula: see text] is the strength of selection and k is the order of the approximation.",
    "title": "Weak Selection and the Separation of Eco-evo Time Scales using Perturbation Analysis.",
    "abstract": "The random Lotka-Volterra model is widely used to describe the dynamical and thermodynamic features of ecological communities. In this work, we consider random symmetric interactions between species and analyze the strongly competitive interaction case. We investigate different scalings for the distribution of the interactions with the number of species and try to bridge the gap with previous works. Our results show two different behaviors for the mean abundance at zero and finite temperature, respectively, with a continuous crossover between the two. We confirm and extend previous results obtained for weak interactions: at zero temperature, even in the strong competitive interaction limit, the system is in a multiple-equilibria phase, whereas at finite temperature only a unique stable equilibrium can exist. Finally, we establish the qualitative phase diagrams and compare the species abundance distributions in the two cases.",
    "title": "Well-mixed Lotka-Volterra model with random strongly competitive interactions.",
    "abstract": "The rock-paper-scissors (RPS) model successfully reproduces some of the main features of simple cyclic predator-prey systems with interspecific competition observed in nature. Still, lattice-based simulations of the spatial stochastic RPS model are known to give rise to significantly different results, depending on whether the three-state Lotka-Volterra or the four-state May-Leonard formulation is employed. This is true independently of the values of the model parameters and of the use of either a von Neumann or a Moore neighborhood. In this paper, we introduce a simple modification to the standard spatial stochastic RPS model in which the range of the search of the nearest neighbor may be extended up to a maximum Euclidean radius R. We show that, with this adjustment, the Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard formulations can be designed to produce similar results, both in terms of dynamical properties and spatial features, by means of an appropriate parameter choice. In particular, we show that this modified spatial stochastic RPS model naturally leads to the emergence of spiral patterns in both its three- and four-state formulations.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra versus May-Leonard formulations of the spatial stochastic rock-paper-scissors model: The missing link.",
    "abstract": "The construction of world-class Bay makes the marine ecology in Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Great Bay Area in risk. Based on the DPSIR index framework, Lotka-Volterra symbiosis model is applied to calculate symbiosis degree between coastal socio-economic system and marine ecosystem in 9 coastal cities. It is found that the marine ecological pressure in this area have not been reversed in recent 20\u00a0years. Most cities are in the stage that socio-economic development and marine ecological damage coexist. In Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Dongguan and Zhongshan, the damaged marine ecology has begun to restrain the further expansion of economy and society. The massive population agglomeration in Hong Kong, Macao and other places has caused serious marine ecological stress. It is urgent to improve the marine ecological security by cultivating ecological industrial system and industrial clusters, establishing a land-sea ecological restoration, promoting joint-protection and co-governance across different administrative regions.",
    "title": "A study on the marine ecological security assessment of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Great Bay Area.",
    "abstract": "We study species abundance in the empirical plant-pollinator mutualistic networks exhibiting broad degree distributions, with uniform intragroup competition assumed, by the Lotka-Volterra equation. The stability of a fixed point is found to be identified by the signs of its nonzero components and those of its neighboring fixed points. Taking the annealed approximation, we derive the nonzero components to be formulated in terms of degrees and the rescaled interaction strengths, which lead us to find different stable fixed points depending on parameters, and we obtain the phase diagram. The selective extinction phase finds small-degree species extinct and effective interaction reduced, maintaining stability and hindering the onset of instability. The nonzero minimum species abundances from different empirical networks show data collapse when rescaled as predicted theoretically.",
    "title": "Stability and selective extinction in complex mutualistic networks.",
    "abstract": "Network-based assessments are important for disentangling complex microbial and microbial-host interactions and can provide the basis for microbial engineering. There is a growing recognition that chemical-mediated interactions are important for the coexistence of microbial species. However, so far, the methods used to infer microbial interactions have been validated with models assuming direct species-species interactions, such as generalized Lotka-Volterra models. Therefore, it is unclear how effective existing approaches are in detecting chemical-mediated interactions. In this paper, we used time series of simulated microbial dynamics to benchmark five major/state-of-the-art methods. We found that only two methods (CCM and LIMITS) were capable of detecting interactions. While LIMITS performed better than CCM, it was less robust to the presence of chemical-mediated interactions, and the presence of trophic competition was essential for the interactions to be detectable. We show that the existence of chemical-mediated interactions among microbial species poses a new challenge to overcome for the development of a network-based understanding of microbiomes and their interactions with hosts and the environment.",
    "title": "Chemical-Mediated Microbial Interactions Can Reduce the Effectiveness of Time-Series-Based Inference of Ecological Interaction Networks.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we propose a diffusive competition model with habitat degradation and homogeneous Neumann boundary conditions in a bounded domain that is partitioned into the healthy region (undisturbed habitat) and the degraded region (due to anthropogenic habitat disturbance). Species follow the Lotka-Volterra competition in the healthy region while in the degraded region species experience only exponential decay (not necessarily at the same rate). This setup is novel in that it requires no positivity assumption on the environmental heterogeneity, either absolute or on average, which would be far too restrictive for the study of the effects of habitat degradation. We rigorously show competitive exclusion and coexistence via global stability analysis. A remarkable finding is that the quality heterogeneity of landscapes can lead to the competitive exclusion of the slower species by the faster species. This result is robust as long as the degraded region has positive area, and moreover is at odds with classical results predicting the deterministic extinction of the stronger species. On the other hand, if the degraded region has intermediate negative effect on the faster competitor, species can coexist. Differing from comparable existing results, coexistence does not rely on a limit as the diffusion coefficients tend to zero or infinity. Together, these results imply that coexistence is always a possibility under this basic, yet general, configuration, providing insights into the varying impacts found through empirical study of habitat loss and fragmentation on species.",
    "title": "Global dynamics of a diffusive competition model with habitat degradation.",
    "abstract": "Competition is a pervasive interaction known to structure ecological communities. The Lotka-Volterra (LV) model has been foundational for our understanding of competition, and trait-based LV models have been used to model community assembly and eco-evolutionary phenomena like diversification. The intrinsic growth rate function is determined by the underlying resource distribution and is a key determinant of the resulting diversity, traits and abundances of species. In these models, the width of the resource distribution relative to the width of the competition kernel has been identified as a key parameter that leads to diversification. However, studies have only investigated the impact of width at just a few discrete values, while also often assuming the intrinsic growth rate function to be unimodal. Thus, the impact of the underlying resource distribution's width and shape together remains incompletely explored, particularly for large, diverse communities. In this study, we vary its width continuously for two shapes (unimodal and bimodal) to explore its impact on community structure. When the resource distribution is very narrow in both the unimodal bimodal cases, competition is strong, leading to exclusion of all but the best-adapted species. Wider resource distributions allow stable coexistence, where the traits of the species depend on the shape of the resource distribution. Extremely wide resource distributions support a diverse community, where the strength of competition ultimately determines the diversity and traits of coexisting species, but their abundances reflect the underlying resource distribution. Further, competition acts to maximize the use of available resources among the competing species. For large communities, the shape of resource distribution becomes immaterial and the width determines the diversity. These results affirm and extend our understanding of limiting similarity.",
    "title": "How the resource supply distribution structures competitive communities.",
    "abstract": "Explaining the emergence and maintenance of intratumor heterogeneity is an important question in cancer biology. Tumor cells can generate considerable subclonal diversity, which influences tumor growth rate, treatment resistance, and metastasis, yet we know remarkably little about how cells from different subclones interact. Here, we confronted two murine mammary cancer cell lines to determine both the nature and mechanisms of subclonal cellular interactions ",
    "title": "Paracrine Behaviors Arbitrate Parasite-Like Interactions Between Tumor Subclones.",
    "abstract": "Individual specialization and generalization refer to the breadth of prey types consumed by predators among all available prey. The ecological factors mechanistically determining individual differences and the coexistence of foraging strategies remain to be clarified. Formal quantitative models can elucidate the complex nonlinear mechanisms underlying predator-prey interactions. In this study, we built a dynamical model with multiple prey, with different nutritional values and reproductive rates, which are consumed by specialist and generalist predators. We then analyzed the viability of individual foraging strategies in all possible scenarios. Relative prey fertility and relative efficiency of predation, rather than prey nutritional value, determined the success of specialists and generalists. Less reproducing prey and the specialists relying on them face the highest danger of extinction, while generalists cannot thrive where specialists are sufficiently efficient in relation to the number of available prey. Our study provides new perspectives for empirical studies on individual specialization.",
    "title": "Individual specialization and generalization in predator-prey dynamics: The determinant role of predation efficiency and prey reproductive rates.",
    "abstract": "We study a class of Lotka-Volterra stochastic differential equations with continuous and pure-jump noise components, and derive conditions that guarantee the strong stochastic persistence (SSP) of the populations engaged in the ecological dynamics. More specifically, we prove that, under certain technical assumptions on the jump sizes and rates, there is convergence of the laws of the stochastic process to a unique stationary distribution supported far away from extinction. We show how the techniques and conditions used in proving SSP for general Kolmogorov systems driven solely by Brownian motion must be adapted and tailored in order to account for the jumps of the driving noise. We provide examples of applications to the case where the underlying food-web is: (a) a 1-predator, 2-prey food-web, and (b) a multi-layer food-chain.",
    "title": "Strong stochastic persistence of some L\u00e9vy-driven Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "The use of predator-prey models in theoretical ecology has a long history, and the model equations have largely evolved since the original Lotka-Volterra system towards more realistic descriptions of the processes of predation, reproduction and mortality. One important aspect is the recognition of the fact that the growth of a population can be subject to an Allee effect, where the per capita growth rate increases with the population density. Including an Allee effect has been shown to fundamentally change predator-prey dynamics and strongly impact species persistence, but previous studies mostly focused on scenarios of an Allee effect in the prey population. Here we explore a predator-prey model with an ecologically important case of the Allee effect in the predator population where it occurs in the numerical response of predator without affecting its functional response. Biologically, this can result from various scenarios such as a lack of mating partners, sperm limitation and cooperative breeding mechanisms, among others. Unlike previous studies, we consider here a generic mathematical formulation of the Allee effect without specifying a concrete parameterisation of the functional form, and analyse the possible local bifurcations in the system. Further, we explore the global bifurcation structure of the model and its possible dynamical regimes for three different concrete parameterisations of the Allee effect. The model possesses a complex bifurcation structure: there can be multiple coexistence states including two stable limit cycles. Inclusion of the Allee effect in the predator generally has a destabilising effect on the coexistence equilibrium. We also show that regardless of the parametrisation of the Allee effect, enrichment of the environment will eventually result in extinction of the predator population.",
    "title": "Bifurcation analysis of the predator-prey model with the Allee effect in the predator.",
    "abstract": "Gause's law of competitive exclusion holds that the coexistence of competing species is extremely unlikely when niches are not differentiated. This law is supported by many mathematical studies, yet the coexistence of competing species is nearly ubiquitous in real ecosystems. We pay attention to the fact that plants and animals usually contact with microbial species as mutualistic partners. The activity spaces of host species are different from those of micro-organisms. In the present study, we apply double-layer model to the association of two competing hosts and a microorganism. Two lattices are prepared: one is for hosts, and the other is for microorganism. The basic equation obtained by mean-field theory is an extension of Lotka-Volterra competition model. Both mathematical analysis and numerical simulations reveal that a shared microbial mutualist can permit the coexistence of competing hosts. From the derived condition of coexistence, we believe the microbial mutualism promotes biodiversity in many ecological systems.",
    "title": "Microbial mutualism promoting the coexistence of competing species: Double-layer model for two competing hosts and one microbial species.",
    "abstract": "The treatment plans designed with the guidance of the mathematical model and adaptive strategy can trap tumor subpopulations in a periodic and controllable loop. But this process requires detailed information about the tumor system, which is difficult to obtain. Therefore, we wondered whether the fixed periodic treatment plans designed with the typical values of population parameters could be applied to a similar tumor system without complete information.\nA binary tumor system constructed by an EGFR-mutant and a KRAS-mutant cell line was used to explore the applicability of the fixed periodic treatment plans. The dynamics of this system were described by combining the Lotka-Volterra model with the framework of the nonlinear mixed-effects model. The typical values of population parameters were used to design the plans, and the robust plans were screened through parameter variation. These screened plans were examined their applicability in animal experiments and simulations.\nIn animal experiments where system parameters vary from -30% to 30%, the \"osimertinib administration, withdrawal, FK866 administration and withdrawal\" plan can trap subpopulations of the system in periodic cycles. In simulation, when there was an unknown resistant subpopulation, the screened fixed periodic treatment plans can still delay the evolution of resistance. The median outcomes of screened plans were better than conventional sequential treatment in most cases. There was no significant difference between the outcomes of the screened plan with median stability and the optimal therapy. The evolutionary trajectories of these two plans were similar.\nAccording to the results, these fixed periodic plans should be tried in treatment even the information of the tumor system was incomplete.",
    "title": "Is the Fixed Periodic Treatment Effective for the Tumor System without Complete Information?",
    "abstract": "Biopreservation is a strategy that has been extensively covered by the scientific literature from a variety of perspectives. However, the development of quantitative modelling approaches has received little attention, despite the usefulness of these tools for the food industry to assess the performance and to set the optimal application conditions. The objective of this study was to evaluate and model the interaction between the antilisteria strain Latilactobacillus sakei CTC494 (sakacin K producer) and Listeria monocytogenes in vacuum-packaged sliced cooked ham. Cooked ham was sliced under aseptic conditions and inoculated with L. monocytogenes CTC1034 and/or L. sakei CTC494 in monoculture and coculture at 10:10, 10:10",
    "title": "A mathematical model to predict the antilisteria bioprotective effect of Latilactobacillus sakei CTC494 in vacuum packaged cooked ham.",
    "abstract": "Suppose we have ",
    "title": "The Fundamental Theorem of Natural Selection.",
    "abstract": "Growth in individual size or biomass is a key demographic component in population models, with wide-ranging applications from quantifying species performance across abiotic or biotic conditions to assessing landscape-level dynamics under global change. In forest ecology, the responses of tree growth to biotic interactions are widely held to be crucial for understanding forest diversity, function, and structure. To date, most studies on plant-plant interactions only examine the additive competitive or facilitative interactions between species pairs; however, there is increasing evidence of non-additive, higher-order interactions (HOIs) impacting species demographic rates. When HOIs are present, the dynamics of a multispecies community cannot be fully understood or accurately predicted solely from pairwise outcomes because of how additional species \"interfere\" with the direct, pairwise interactions. Such HOIs should be particularly prevalent when species show non-linear functional responses to resource availability and resource-acquisition traits themselves are density dependent. With this in mind, we used data from a tropical secondary forest-a system that fulfills both of these conditions-to build an ontogenetic diameter growth model for individuals across 10 woody-plant species. We allowed both direct and indirect interactions within communities to influence the species-specific growth parameters in a generalized Lotka-Volterra model. Specifically, indirect interactions entered the model as higher-order quadratic terms, i.e., non-additive effects of conspecific and heterospecific neighbor size on the focal individual's growth. For the whole community and for four out of 10 focal species, the model that included HOIs had more statistical support than the model that included only direct interactions, despite the former containing a far greater number of parameters. HOIs had comparable effect sizes to direct interactions, and tended to further reduce the diameter growth rates of most species beyond what direct interactions had already reduced. In a simulation of successional stand dynamics, the inclusion of HOIs led to rank swaps in species' diameter hierarchies, even when community-level size distributions remained qualitatively similar. Our study highlights the implications, and discusses possible mechanisms, of non-additive density dependence in highly diverse and light-competitive tropical forests.",
    "title": "Non-additive biotic interactions improve predictions of tropical tree growth and impact community size structure.",
    "abstract": "The identification of optimal drug administration schedules to overcome the emergence of resistance that causes treatment failure is a major challenge in cancer research. We report the outcomes of a computational strategy to assess the dynamics of tumor progression as a function of time under different treatment regimens.\nWe developed an evolutionary game theory model that combined Lotka-Volterra equations and pharmacokinetic properties with 2 competing cancer species: nivolumab-response cells and Janus kinase (JAK1/2) mutation cells. We selected 3 therapeutic schemes that have been tested in the clinical trials: 3 mg/kg Q2w, 10 mg/kg Q2w, and 480 mg Q4w. The simulation was performed under the intervals of 75, 125, and 175 days, respectively, for each regimen. The data sources of the pharmacokinetic parameters used in this study were collected from previous published clinical trials. Other parameters in the evolutionary model come from the existing references.\nPredictions under various dose schedules indicated a strong selection for nivolumab-independent cells. Under the 3 mg/kg dose strategy, the reproduction rate of JAK mutation cells was highest, with strongest tumor elimination ability at a 75-day interval between treatments. Prolonged drug intervals to 125 or 175 days delayed tumor evolution but accelerated tumor recurrence. Although 10 mg/kg Q2w had an obvious clinical effect in a short time, it further promotes the progress of resistant population compared with the 3 mg/kg dose. Our model suggests that 480 mg Q4w would be more valuable in terms of clinical efficacy, but complete resistant occurs earlier regardless the interval.\nThe results of this study emphasize that increasing the dose or shortening the interval between doses accelerates the evolution of heterogeneous populations, although the short-term effect is significant. In practice, the therapeutic regimen should be balanced according to the evolutionary principle.",
    "title": "Dynamics of Acquired Resistance to Nivolumab Therapies Varies From Administration Strategies.",
    "abstract": "Adaptive therapy exploits the self-organization of tumor cells to delay the outgrowth of resistant subpopulations successfully. When the tumor has aggressive resistant subpopulations, the outcome of adaptive therapy was not superior to maximum tolerated dose therapy (MTD). To explore methods to improve the adaptive therapy's performance of this case, the tumor system was constructed by osimertinib-sensitive and resistant cell lines and illustrated by the Lotka-Volterra model in this study. Restore index proposed to assess the system reachability can predict the duration of each treatment cycle. Then the threshold of the restore index was estimated to evaluate the timing of interrupting the treatment cycle and switching to high-frequency administration. The introduced reachability-based adaptive therapy and classic adaptive therapy were compared through simulation and animal experiments. The results suggested that reachability-based adaptive therapy showed advantages when the tumor has an aggressive resistant subpopulation. This study provides a feasible method for evaluating whether to continue the adaptive therapy treatment cycle or switch to high-frequency administration. This method improves the gain of adaptive therapy by taking into account the benefits of tumor intra-competition and the tumor control of killing sensitive subpopulation.",
    "title": "Optimizing Adaptive Therapy Based on the Reachability to Tumor Resistant Subpopulation.",
    "abstract": "We rigorously prove the passage from a Lotka-Volterra reaction-diffusion system towards a cross-diffusion system at the fast reaction limit. The system models a competition of two species, where one species has a more diverse diet than the other. The resulting limit gives a cross-diffusion system of a starvation driven type. We investigate the linear stability of homogeneous equilibria of those systems and rule out the possibility of cross-diffusion induced instability (Turing instability). Numerical simulations are included which are compatible with the theoretical results.",
    "title": "Evolution of dietary diversity and a starvation driven cross-diffusion system as its singular limit.",
    "abstract": "Genes play an important role in community ecology and evolution, but how to identify the genes that affect community dynamics at the whole genome level is very challenging. Here, we develop a Holling type II functional response model for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that govern interspecific interactions. The model, integrated with generalized Lotka-Volterra differential dynamic equations, shows a better capacity to reveal the dynamic complexity of inter-species interactions than classic competition models. By applying the new model to a published mapping data from a competition experiment of two microbial species, we identify a set of previously uncharacterized QTLs that are specifically responsible for microbial cooperation and competition. The model can not only characterize how these QTLs affect microbial interactions, but also address how change in ecological interactions activates the genetic effects of the QTLs. This model provides a quantitative means of predicting the genetic architecture that shapes the dynamic behavior of ecological communities.",
    "title": "A Holling Functional Response Model for Mapping QTLs Governing Interspecific Interactions.",
    "abstract": "Having control over species abundances and community resilience is of great interest for experimental, agricultural, industrial and conservation purposes. Here, we theoretically explore the possibility of manipulating ecological communities by modifying pairwise interactions. Specifically, we establish which interaction values should be modified, and by how much, in order to alter the composition or resilience of a community towards a favorable direction. While doing so, we also take into account the experimental difficulties in making such modifications by including in our optimization process, a cost parameter, which penalizes large modifications. In addition to prescribing what changes should be made to interspecies interactions given some modification cost, our approach also serves to establish the limits of community control, i.e. how well can one approach an ecological goal at best, even when not constrained by cost.",
    "title": "Theoretical guidelines for editing ecological communities.",
    "abstract": "Lattice models are a useful tool to simulate the kinetics of surface reactions. Since it is expensive to propagate the probabilities of the entire lattice configurations, it is practical to consider the occupation probabilities of a typical site or a cluster of sites instead. This amounts to a moment closure approximation of the chemical master equation. Unfortunately, simple closures, such as the mean-field and the pair approximation (PA), exhibit weaknesses in systems with significant long-range correlation. In this paper, we show that machine learning (ML) can be used to construct accurate moment closures in chemical kinetics using the lattice Lotka-Volterra model as a model system. We trained feedforward neural networks on kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) results at select values of rate constants and initial conditions. Given the same level of input as PA, the ML moment closure (MLMC) gave accurate predictions of the instantaneous three-site occupation probabilities. Solving the kinetic equations in conjunction with MLMC gave drastic improvements in the simulated dynamics and descriptions of the dynamical regimes throughout the parameter space. In this way, MLMC is a promising tool to interpolate KMC simulations or construct pretrained closures that would enable researchers to extract useful insight at a fraction of the computational cost.",
    "title": "Machine learning dynamic correlation in chemical kinetics.",
    "abstract": "Microbial communities found in nature are composed of many rare species and few abundant ones, as reflected by their heavy-tailed abundance distributions. How a large number of species can coexist in those complex communities and why they are dominated by rare species is still not fully understood. We show how heavy-tailed distributions arise as an emergent property from large communities with many interacting species in population-level models. To do so, we rely on generalized Lotka-Volterra models for which we introduce a global maximal capacity. This maximal capacity accounts for the fact that communities are limited by available resources and space. In a parallel ad hoc approach, we obtain heavy-tailed abundance distributions from logistic models, without interactions, through specific distributions of the parameters. We expect both mechanisms, interactions between many species and specific parameter distributions, to be relevant to explain the observed heavy tails.",
    "title": "Heavy-tailed abundance distributions from stochastic Lotka-Volterra models.",
    "abstract": "Savanna ecosystems are shaped by the frequency and intensity of regular fires. We model savannas via an ordinary differential equation (ODE) encoding a one-sided inhibitory Lotka-Volterra interaction between trees and grass. By applying fire as a discrete disturbance, we create an impulsive dynamical system that allows us to identify the impact of variation in fire frequency and intensity. The model exhibits three different bistability regimes: between savanna and grassland; two savanna states; and savanna and woodland. The impulsive model reveals rich bifurcation structures in response to changes in fire intensity and frequency-structures that are largely invisible to analogous ODE models with continuous fire. In addition, by using the amount of grass as an example of a socially valued function of the system state, we examine the resilience of the social value to different disturbance regimes. We find that large transitions (\"tipping\") in the valued quantity can be triggered by small changes in disturbance regime.",
    "title": "Impulsive Fire Disturbance in a Savanna Model: Tree-Grass Coexistence States, Multiple Stable System States, and Resilience.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we develop a compartmental model of SIR type (the abbreviation refers to the number of Susceptible, Infected and Recovered people) that models the population dynamics of two diseases that can coinfect. We discuss how the underlying dynamics depends on the carrying capacity ",
    "title": "Effect of density dependence on coinfection dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Many species are annual breeders who, between reproductive events, consume resources and may die. Their resource often reproduces continuously or has short, overlapping generations. An accurate model for such life cycles needs to represent both, the discrete- and the continuous-time processes in the community. The dynamics of a single discrete breeder and its resource can differ significantly from that of a fully continuous consumer-resource community (e.g., Lotka-Volterra) and that of a fully discrete one (e.g., Nicholson-Bailey). We study the dynamics of multiple discrete breeders on a single resource and identify a number of coexistence mechanisms and complex dynamics. The resource grows logistically, resource consumption is linear and consumer reproduction can be linear or nonlinear. We derive explicit conditions for the positive equilibrium state to exist and for mutual invasion to occur at that equilibrium. Stable equilibrium coexistence of more than one consumer is possible only when reproduction is nonlinear. Higher resource growth rate generally allows more consumers to stably coexist. Our explicit formulas allow us to generate communities of many coexisting consumers. Total biomass in the system seems to increase with the number of coexisting consumers. Complex patterns of coexistence arise, including bistability of equilibrium and non-equilibrium coexistence. The mixed continuous-discrete modeling approach can easily be adapted to study how certain aspects of global change affect discrete breeder communities.",
    "title": "Competitive coexistence of seasonal breeders.",
    "abstract": "Ocean-related global change has strongly affected the competition between key marine phytoplankton groups, such as diatoms and dinoflagellates, especially with the deleterious consequency of the increasing occurrence of harmful algal blooms. The dominance of diatoms generally shifts toward that of dinoflagellates in response to increasing temperature and reduced nutrient availability; however, contradictory findings have also been observed in certain sea areas. A key challenge in ecology and biogeochemistry is to quantitatively determine the effects of multiple environmental factors on the diatom-dinoflagellate community and the related changes in elemental and biochemical composition. Here, we test the interplay between temperature, nutrient concentrations and their ratios on marine diatom-dinoflagellate competition and chemical composition using bi-algal competition experiments. The ubiquitous diatom ",
    "title": "Responses of Marine Diatom-Dinoflagellate Competition to Multiple Environmental Drivers: Abundance, Elemental, and Biochemical Aspects.",
    "abstract": "We theoretically demonstrate the realization of a chiral edge mode in a system beyond natural science. Specifically, we elucidate that a kagome network of rock-paper-scissors (K-RPS) hosts a chiral edge mode of the population density which is protected by the nontrivial topology in the bulk. The emergence of the chiral edge mode is demonstrated by numerically solving the Lotka-Volterra (LV) equation. This numerical result can be intuitively understood in terms of the cyclic motion of a single rock-paper-scissors cycle, which is analogous to the cyclotron motion of fermions. Furthermore, we point out that a linearized LV equation is mathematically equivalent to the Schr\u00f6dinger equation describing quantum systems. This equivalence allows us to clarify the topological origin of the chiral edge mode in the K-RPS; a nonzero Chern number of the payoff matrix induces the chiral edge mode of the population density, which exemplifies the bulk-edge correspondence in two-dimensional systems described by evolutionary game theory.",
    "title": "Chiral edge modes in evolutionary game theory: A kagome network of rock-paper-scissors cycles.",
    "abstract": "One of the major problems of traditional anti-cancer treatments is that they lead to the emergence of treatment-resistant cells, which results in treatment failure. To avoid or delay this phenomenon, it is relevant to take into account the eco-evolutionary dynamics of tumors. Designing evolution-based treatment strategies may help overcoming the problem of drug resistance. In particular, a promising candidate is adaptive therapy, a containment strategy which adjusts treatment cycles to the evolution of the tumors in order to keep the population of treatment-resistant cells under control. Mathematical modeling is a crucial tool to understand the dynamics of cancer in response to treatments, and to make predictions about the outcomes of these treatments. In this review, we highlight the benefits of in silico modeling to design adaptive therapy strategies, and to assess whether they could effectively improve treatment outcomes. Specifically, we review how two main types of models (i.e., mathematical models based on Lotka-Volterra equations and agent-based models) have been used to model tumor dynamics in response to adaptive therapy. We give examples of the advances they permitted in the field of adaptive therapy and discuss about how these models can be integrated in experimental approaches and clinical trial design.",
    "title": "Darwinian Approaches for Cancer Treatment: Benefits of Mathematical Modeling.",
    "abstract": "Assessing the impact of environmental fluctuations on species coexistence is critical for understanding biodiversity loss and the ecological impacts of climate change. Yet determining how properties like the intensity, frequency or duration of environmental fluctuations influence species coexistence remains challenging, presumably because previous studies have focused on indefinite coexistence. Here, we model the impact of environmental fluctuations at different temporal scales on species coexistence over a finite time period by employing the concepts of time-windowed averaging and performance curves to incorporate temporal niche differences within a stochastic Lotka-Volterra model. We discover that short- and long-term environmental variability has contrasting effects on transient species coexistence, such that short-term variation favours species coexistence, whereas long-term variation promotes competitive exclusion. This dichotomy occurs because small samples (e.g. environmental changes over long time periods) are more likely to show large deviations from the expected mean and are more difficult to predict than large samples (e.g. environmental changes over short time periods), as described in the central limit theorem. Consequently, we show that the complex set of relationships among environmental fluctuations and species coexistence found in previous studies can all be synthesized within a general framework by explicitly considering both long- and short-term environmental variation.",
    "title": "Antagonistic effects of long- and short-term environmental variation on species coexistence.",
    "abstract": "Fractional operators find their applications in several scientific and engineering processes. We consider a fractional guava fruit model involving a non-local additionally non-singular fractional derivative for the interaction into guava pests and natural enemies. The fractional guava fruit model is considered as a Lotka-Volterra nature.\nThe main objective of this work is to study a guava fruit model associated with a non-local additionally non-singular fractional derivative for the interaction into guava pests and natural enemies.\nExistence and uniqueness analysis of the solution is evaluated effectively by using Picard Lindelof approach. An approximate numerical solution of the fractional guava fruit problem is obtained via a numerical scheme.\nThe positivity analysis and equilibrium analysis for the fractional guava fruit model is discussed. The numerical results are demonstrated to prove our theoretical results. The graphical behavior of solution of the fractional guava problem at the distinct fractional order values and at various parameters is discussed.\nThe graphical behavior of solution of the fractional guava problem at the distinct fractional order values and at various parameters shows new vista and interesting phenomena of the model. The results are indicating that the fractional approach with non-singular kernel plays an important role in the study of different scientific problems. The suggested numerical scheme is very efficient for solving nonlinear fractional models of physical importance.",
    "title": "Analysis of fractional model of guava for biological pest control with memory effect.",
    "abstract": "We introduce and analyze a spatial Lotka-Volterra competition model with local and nonlocal interactions. We study two alternative classes of nonlocal competition that differ in how each species' characteristics determine the range of the nonlocal interactions. In both cases, nonlocal interactions can create spatial patterns of population densities in which highly populated clumps alternate with unpopulated regions. These non-populated regions provide spatial niches for a weaker competitor to establish in the community and persist in conditions in which local models predict competitive exclusion. Moreover, depending on the balance between local and nonlocal competition intensity, the clumps of the weaker competitor vary from M-like structures with higher densities of individuals accumulating at the edges of each clump to triangular structures with most individuals occupying their centers. These results suggest that long-range competition, through the creation of spatial patterns in population densities, might be a key driving force behind the rich diversity of species observed in natural ecological communities.",
    "title": "Enhanced species coexistence in Lotka-Volterra competition models due to nonlocal interactions.",
    "abstract": "The interaction between a consumer (such as, a predator or a parasitoid) and a resource (such as, a prey or a host) forms an integral motif in ecological food webs, and has been modeled since the early 20th century starting from the seminal work of Lotka and Volterra. While the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model predicts a neutrally stable equilibrium with oscillating population densities, a density-dependent predator attack rate is known to stabilize the equilibrium. Here, we consider a stochastic formulation of the Lotka-Volterra model where the prey's reproduction rate is a random process, and the predator's attack rate depends on both the prey and predator population densities. Analysis shows that increasing the sensitivity of the attack rate to the prey density attenuates the magnitude of stochastic fluctuations in the population densities. In contrast, these fluctuations vary non-monotonically with the sensitivity of the attack rate to the predator density with an optimal level of sensitivity minimizing the magnitude of fluctuations. Interestingly, our systematic study of the predator-prey correlations reveals distinct signatures depending on the form of the density-dependent attack rate. In summary, stochastic dynamics of nonlinear Lotka-Volterra models can be harnessed to infer density-dependent mechanisms regulating predator-prey interactions. Moreover, these mechanisms can have contrasting consequences on population density fluctuations, with predator-dependent attack rates amplifying stochasticity, while prey-dependent attack rates countering to buffer fluctuations.",
    "title": "Stochastic dynamics of predator-prey interactions.",
    "abstract": "What will happen when two invasive species are competing and invading the environment at the same time? In this paper, we try to find all the possible scenarios in such a situation based on the diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition system with free boundaries. In a recent work, Du and Wu (Calc Var Partial Differ Equ, 57(2):52, 2018) considered a weak-strong competition case of this model (with spherical symmetry) and theoretically proved the existence of a \"chase-and-run coexistence\" phenomenon, for certain parameter ranges when the initial functions are chosen properly. Here we use a numerical approach to extend the theoretical research of Du and Wu (Calc Var Partial Differ Equ, 57(2):52, 2018) in several directions. Firstly, we examine how the longtime dynamics of the model changes as the initial functions are varied, and the simulation results suggest that there are four possible longtime profiles of the dynamics, with the chase-and-run coexistence the only possible profile when both species invade successfully. Secondly, we show through numerical experiments that the basic features of the model appear to be retained when the environment is perturbed by periodic variation in time. Thirdly, our numerical analysis suggests that in two space dimensions the population range and the spatial population distribution of the successful invader tend to become more and more circular as time increases no matter what geometrical shape the initial population range possesses. Our numerical simulations cover the one space dimension case, and two space dimension case with or without spherical symmetry. The numerical methods here are based on that of Liu et al. (Mathematics, 6(5):72, 2018, Int J Comput Math, 97(5): 959-979, 2020). In the two space dimension case without radial symmetry, the level set method is used, while the front tracking method is used for the remaining cases. We hope the numerical observations in this paper can provide further insights to the biological invasion problem, and also to future theoretical investigations. More importantly, we hope the numerical analysis may reach more biologically oriented experts and inspire applications of some refined versions of the model tailored to specific real world biological invasion problems.",
    "title": "Invasive behaviour under competition via a free boundary model: a numerical approach.",
    "abstract": "One of the oldest and most persistent questions in ecology and evolution is whether natural communities tend to evolve toward saturation and maximal diversity. Robert MacArthur's classical theory of niche packing and the theory of adaptive radiations both imply that populations will diversify and fully partition any available niche space. However, the saturation of natural populations is still very much an open area of debate and investigation. Additionally, recent evolutionary theory suggests the existence of alternative evolutionary stable states (ESSs), which implies that some stable communities may not be fully saturated. Using models with classical Lotka-Volterra ecological dynamics and three formulations of evolutionary dynamics (a model using adaptive dynamics, an individual-based model, and a partial differential equation model), we show that following an adaptive radiation, communities can often get stuck in low diversity states when limited by mutations of small phenotypic effect. These low diversity metastable states can also be maintained by limited resources and finite population sizes. When small mutations and finite populations are considered together, it is clear that despite the presence of higher-diversity stable states, natural populations are likely not fully saturating their environment and leaving potential niche space unfilled. Additionally, within-species variation can further reduce community diversity from levels predicted by models that assume species-level homogeneity.",
    "title": "Evolution to alternative levels of stable diversity leaves areas of niche space unexplored.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, the invasive speed selection of the monostable travelling wave for a three-component lattice Lotka-Volterra competition system is studied via the upper and lower solution method, as well as the comparison principle. By constructing several special upper and lower solutions, we establish sufficient conditions such that the linear or nonlinear selection is realized.",
    "title": "Speed determinacy of travelling waves for a three-component lattice Lotka-Volterra competition system.",
    "abstract": "Population dynamic models can be used in conjunction with time series of species abundances to infer interactions. Understanding microbial interactions is a prerequisite for numerous goals in microbiome research, including predicting how populations change over time, determining how manipulations of microbiomes affect dynamics and designing synthetic microbiomes to perform tasks. As such, there is great interest in adapting population dynamic theory for microbial systems. Despite the appeal, numerous hurdles exist. One hurdle is that the data commonly obtained from DNA sequencing yield estimates of relative abundances, while population dynamic models such as the generalized Lotka-Volterra model track absolute abundances or densities. It is not clear whether relative abundance data alone can be used to infer parameters of population dynamic models such as the Lotka-Volterra model. We used structural identifiability analyses to determine the extent to which a time series of relative abundances can be used to parametrize the generalized Lotka-Volterra model. We found that only with absolute abundance data to accompany relative abundance estimates from sequencing can all parameters be uniquely identified. However, relative abundance data alone do contain information on relative interaction strengths, which is sufficient for many studies where the goal is to estimate key interactions and their effects on dynamics. Using synthetic data of a simple community for which we know the underlying structure, local practical identifiability analysis showed that modest amounts of both process and measurement error do not fundamentally affect these identifiability properties.",
    "title": "Structural identifiability of the generalized Lotka-Volterra model for microbiome studies.",
    "abstract": "For classic Lotka-Volterra systems governing many interacting species, we establish an exclusion principle that rules out the existence of linearly asymptotically stable steady states in subcommunities of communities that admit a stable state which is internally D-stable. This type of stability is known to be ensured, e.g., by diagonal dominance or Volterra-Lyapunov stability conditions. By consequence, the number of stable steady states of this type is bounded by Sperner's lemma on anti-chains in a poset. The number of stable steady states can nevertheless be very large if there are many groups of species that strongly inhibit outsiders but have weak interactions among themselves. By examples we also show that in general it is possible for a stable community to contain a stable subcommunity consisting of a single species. Thus a recent empirical finding to the contrary, in a study of random competitive systems by Lischke and L\u00f6ffler (Theor Popul Biol 115:24-34, 2017), does not hold without qualification.",
    "title": "Exclusion and multiplicity for stable communities in Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "Accumulating evidence has highlighted the importance of microbial interaction networks. Methods have been developed for estimating microbial interaction networks, of which the generalized Lotka-Volterra equation (gLVE)-based method can estimate a directed interaction network. The previous gLVE-based method for estimating microbial interaction networks did not consider time-varying interactions.\nIn this study, we developed unsupervised learning-based microbial interaction inference method using Bayesian estimation (Umibato), a method for estimating time-varying microbial interactions. The Umibato algorithm comprises Gaussian process regression (GPR) and a new Bayesian probabilistic model, the continuous-time regression hidden Markov model (CTRHMM). Growth rates are estimated by GPR, and interaction networks are estimated by CTRHMM. CTRHMM can estimate time-varying interaction networks using interaction states, which are defined as hidden variables. Umibato outperformed the existing methods on synthetic datasets. In addition, it yielded reasonable estimations in experiments on a mouse gut microbiota dataset, thus providing novel insights into the relationship between consumed diets and the gut microbiota.\nThe C++ and python source codes of the Umibato software are available at https://github.com/shion-h/Umibato.\nSupplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.",
    "title": "Umibato: estimation of time-varying microbial interaction using continuous-time regression hidden Markov model.",
    "abstract": "Bacterial communities have been identified as functional key members in soil ecology. A deep relation with these communities maintains forest coverture. Trees harbor particular bacteriomes in the rhizosphere, endosphere, or phyllosphere, different from bulk-soil representatives. Moreover, the plant microbiome appears to be specific for the plant-hosting species, varies through season, and responsive to several environmental factors. This work reports the changes in bacterial communities associated with dominant pioneer trees [Tabebuia rosea and Handroanthus chrysanthus [(Bignoniaceae)] during tropical forest recovery chronosequence in the Mayan forest in Campeche, Mexico. Massive 16S sequencing approach leads to identifying phylotypes associated with rhizosphere, bulk-soil, or recovery stage. Lotka-Volterra interactome modeling suggests the presence of putative regulatory roles of some phylotypes over the rest of the community. Our results may indicate that bacterial communities associated with pioneer trees may establish more complex regulatory networks than those found in bulk-soil. Moreover, modeled regulatory networks predicted from rhizosphere samples resulted in a higher number of nodes and interactions than those found in the analysis of bulk-soil samples.",
    "title": "Diversity and Interactomics of Bacterial Communities Associated with Dominant Trees During Tropical Forest Recovery.",
    "abstract": "We study a reference model in theoretical ecology, the disordered Lotka-Volterra model for ecological communities, in the presence of finite demographic noise. Our theoretical analysis, valid for symmetric interactions, shows that for sufficiently heterogeneous interactions and low demographic noise the system displays a multiple equilibria phase, which we fully characterize. In particular, we show that in this phase the number of locally stable equilibria is exponential in the number of species. Upon further decreasing the demographic noise, we unveil the presence of a second transition like the so-called \"Gardner\" transition to a marginally stable phase similar to that observed in the jamming of amorphous materials. We confirm and complement our analytical results by numerical simulations. Furthermore, we extend their relevance by showing that they hold for other interacting random dynamical systems such as the random replicant model. Finally, we discuss their extension to the case of asymmetric couplings.",
    "title": "Properties of Equilibria and Glassy Phases of the Random Lotka-Volterra Model with Demographic Noise.",
    "abstract": "Compared to fuel vehicles, new energy vehicles have the advantages of energy-saving and emission reduction and, hence, are widely accepted. As the policy has been withdrawn gradually, the development of new energy vehicles has slowed down. Under the double effect of positive factors, such as policy support and public opinion support and malpractice factors, this study explored the development status of new energy vehicles and the related problems. Based on the qualitative and quantitative perspective, the improved Lotka-Volterra model and the health assessment method are adopted, and the system dynamics, behavioral economics, and other methods are combined to establish the driving flow diagram of new energy vehicles to explore the source of the problem and the governance measures. The analysis results showed that the support strength of policy and public opinion decreases gradually. However, the primary factor restricting the development of new energy vehicles is still cost. Cadmium and chromium in the soil exceed the national heavy metal content standards of China, while the other five heavy metals in the analysis period did not exceed the national standards.",
    "title": "Influence factors and risk analysis of new energy vehicles from the perspective of system.",
    "abstract": "With the intensification of people's production and life behaviors, the systemic risks of water, energy and food in the Yangtze River Basin have become increasingly prominent, which has become a bottleneck for sustainable development of social, economic and ecological in the basin. Therefore, studying the symbiotic coordination between water, energy and food is of great significance to promoting regional sustainable development. First, from the perspective of water-energy-food symbiosis, with the water-energy-food ecosystem conceptual model as the nexus, the two-step measurement model of the symbiotic index and the symbiotic level index is used to study the water-energy-food symbiosis of the Yangtze River. Then, we use the BP-DEMATEL-GTCW model to identify the key influencing factors that affect the symbiotic security of the water-energy-food ecosystem. In this research, it is found that the average value of the symbiotic degree of the water-energy-food ecosystem of the 11 provinces or municipalities in the Yangtze River Basin only reached the risk grade. It can also be seen from the identification results of key influencing factors that energy microsystem-related indicators have a greater impact on the symbiotic development of the entire WEF ecosystem. Therefore, special attention needs to be paid to increasing energy sources and reducing expenditure. Relevant departments need to effectively develop primary energy production and expand energy-saving investment through multiple channels to expand energy self-sufficiency and ultimately promote the coordinated and effective development of water, energy and food in the Yangtze River Basin.",
    "title": "Two-Step Measurement of Water-Energy-Food Symbiotic Coordination and Identification of Key Influencing Factors in the Yangtze River Basin.",
    "abstract": "We consider a Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion-advection system with the total resources for two competitors fixed at the same level. We reveal the combined effect of competition abilities and spatial variations on the coexistence of two competing species. It is obtained that when the ratio of advection rate \u03b1 to diffusion rate d",
    "title": "Coexistence in a competition-diffusion-advection system with equal amount of total resources.",
    "abstract": "COVID-19 has become a world wide pandemic since its first appearance at the end of the year 2019. Although some vaccines have already been announced, a new mutant version has been reported in UK. We certainly should be more careful and make further investigations to the virus spread and dynamics. This work investigates dynamics in Lotka-Volterra based Models of COVID-19. The proposed models involve fractional derivatives which provide more adequacy and realistic description of the natural phenomena arising from such models. Existence and boundedness of non-negative solution of the fractional model is proved. Local stability is also discussed based on Matignon's stability conditions. Numerical results show that the fractional parameter has effect on flattening the curves of the coexistence steady state. This interesting foundation might be used among the public health strategies to control the spread of COVID-19 and its mutated versions.",
    "title": "An analytical study of the dynamic behavior of Lotka-Volterra based models of COVID-19.",
    "abstract": "Observational studies of ecological systems have shown that different species compositions can arise from distinct species arrival orders during community assembly-also known as colonization history. The presence of multiple interior equilibria in the positive orthant of the state space of the population dynamics will naturally lead to history dependency of the final state. However, it is still unclear whether and under which conditions colonization history will dominate community composition in the absence of multiple interior equilibria. Here, by considering that only one species can invade at a time and there are no recurrent invasions, we show clear evidence that the colonization history can have a big impact on the composition of ecological systems even in the absence of multiple interior equilibria. In particular, we first derive two simple rules to determine whether the composition of a community will depend on its colonization history in the absence of multiple interior equilibria and recurrent invasions. Then we apply them to communities governed by generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) dynamics and propose a numerical scheme to measure the probability of colonization history dependence. Finally, we show, via numerical simulations, that for gLV dynamics with a single interior equilibrium, the probability that community composition is dominated by colonization history increases monotonically with community size, network connectivity, and the variation of intrinsic growth rates across species. These results reveal that in the absence of multiple interior equilibria and recurrent invasions, community composition is a probabilistic process mediated by ecological dynamics via the interspecific variation and the size of regional pools.",
    "title": "Impact of colonization history on the composition of ecological systems.",
    "abstract": "When faced with an imminent risk of predation, many animals react to escape consumption. Antipredator strategies are performed by individuals acting as a group to intimidate predators and minimize the damage when attacked. We study the antipredator prey response in spatial tritrophic systems with cyclic species dominance using the rock-paper-scissors game. The impact of the antipredator behavior is local, with the predation probability reducing exponentially with the number of prey in the predator's neighborhood. In contrast to the standard Lotka-Volterra implementation of the rock-paper-scissors model, where no spiral waves appear, our outcomes show that the antipredator behavior leads to spiral patterns from random initial conditions. The results show that the predation risk decreases exponentially with the level of antipredator strength. Finally, we investigate the coexistence probability and verify that antipredator behavior may jeopardize biodiversity for high mobility. Our findings may help biologists to understand ecosystems formed by species whose individuals behave strategically to resist predation.",
    "title": "Antipredator behavior in the rock-paper-scissors model.",
    "abstract": "Resource competition is an important interaction that can structure ecological communities, but is difficult to demonstrate in nature, and rarely demonstrated for large mammals including marsupials. We analysed 10\u00a0years of population survey data to investigate resource competition between bare-nosed wombats (Vombatus ursinus) and eastern grey kangaroos (Macropus giganteus) at two sites to assess whether resource competition is occurring. At one site, wombat abundance was reduced by increased mortality from mange disease, whereas at the other site, kangaroo abundance was reduced primarily by culling. We used the modified Lotka-Volterra competition (LVC) models to describe the mechanism of resource competition and fitted those models to the empirical data by maximum likelihood estimation. We found strong negative relationships between the abundance of wombats and kangaroos at each site, and resource competition was also mechanistically supported by the modified LVC models. The estimated competition coefficients indicate that bare-nosed wombats are a slightly superior competitor of eastern grey kangaroos than vice versa, and that intraspecific competition is almost twice as strong as interspecific competition. In addition, this study facilitated the calculation of the transmission rate associated with mange disease at one site (0.011), and the removal rate owing to culling, the introduction of a predator species, and drought at the other site (0.0006). Collectively, this research represents a rare empirical demonstration of resource competition between large mammals and contributes new insight into the ecology of two of Australia's largest grazing marsupials.",
    "title": "Contrasting population manipulations reveal resource competition between two large marsupials: bare-nosed wombats and eastern grey kangaroos.",
    "abstract": "The rapid industrialization and the lack of technological innovation over the past 40 years have caused serious environmental pollution and waste of resources. Therefore, it remains an urgent challenge to coordinate technological innovation, resource consumption, environmental quality, and high-quality industrial development in China. Using the data of Shaanxi Province from 2005 to 2019, in this paper, we adopt the 4-population grey Lotka-Volterra model (GLV) to study the competition and cooperation among technological innovation (TI), resource consumption (RE), environmental quality (EE), and industrial development quality (IQ). We also discuss the equilibrium point and stability of the GLV model and further verify its accuracy. We conduct an empirical study of the data of Shaanxi Province, and the results demonstrate that (1) TI is able to improve EE, increase IQ, and promote RE; (2) conserving resources has a positive effect on TI, EE, and IQ; (3) although EE could prevent TI and IQ, it can reduce RE; and (4) IQ can effectively reduce RE and improve EE; however, it hinders TI. (5) The result of equilibrium analysis reveals that the evolution of the four factors will tend to reach a stable equilibrium point in the future, that is, realizing co-evolution.",
    "title": "Grey Lotka-Volterra model for the co-evolution of technological innovation, resource consumption, environmental quality, and high-quality industrial development in Shaanxi Province, China.",
    "abstract": "We analyze ecological systems that are influenced by random environmental fluctuations. We first provide general conditions which ensure that the species coexist and the system converges to a unique invariant probability measure (stationary distribution). Since it is usually impossible to characterize this invariant probability measure analytically, we develop a powerful method for numerically approximating invariant probability measures. This allows us to shed light upon how the various parameters of the ecosystem impact the stationary distribution. We analyze different types of environmental fluctuations. At first we study ecosystems modeled by stochastic differential equations. In the second setting we look at piecewise deterministic Markov processes. These are processes where one follows a system of differential equations for a random time, after which the environmental state changes, and one follows a different set of differential equations-this procedure then gets repeated indefinitely. Finally, we look at stochastic differential equations with switching, which take into account both the white noise fluctuations and the random environmental switches. As applications of our theoretical and numerical analysis, we look at competitive Lotka-Volterra, Beddington-DeAngelis predator-prey, and rock-paper-scissors dynamics. We highlight new biological insights by analyzing the stationary distributions of the ecosystems and by seeing how various types of environmental fluctuations influence the long term fate of populations.",
    "title": "Stationary distributions of persistent ecological systems.",
    "abstract": "Aim of this work is to study the four species various fractional-order prey-predator or Lotka-Volterra (LV) system with both immigration and harvesting effects. The existence and uniqueness, uniform boundedness, persistence, permanence, and extinction of this system solution are analyzed. The stability behavior of the system is obtained with the help of the Routh-Hurwitz (RH) stability criterion. The small changes in fractional-order values can produce a significant impact on the stability of the system is confirmed. This work verifies that the small amount of immigration effect can change the dynamic nature of the LV system. Numerical results are given to illustrate the obtained theoretical results of the stability analysis. The bionomic equilibrium points of the system are attained with their feasibility conditions. To get the optimal amount of harvesting effect with the Pontryagin's maximum principle, the harvesting parameter is considered as the control parameter.",
    "title": "Dynamical analysis and optimal harvesting of conformable fractional prey-predator system with predator immigration.",
    "abstract": "Microbial communities can have dramatically different compositions even among similar environments. This might be due to the existence of multiple alternative stable states, yet there exists little experimental evidence supporting this possibility. Here, we gathered a large collection of absolute population abundances capturing population dynamics in one- to four-strain communities of soil bacteria with a complex life cycle in a feast-or-famine environment. This dataset led to several observations: (i) some pairwise competitions resulted in bistability with a separatrix near a 1:1 initial ratio across a range of population densities; (ii) bistability propagated to multi-stability in multispecies communities; and (iii) replicate microbial communities reached different stable states when starting close to initial conditions separating basins of attraction, indicating finite-sized regions where the dynamics are unpredictable. The generalized Lotka-Volterra equations qualitatively captured most competition outcomes but were unable to quantitatively recapitulate the observed dynamics. This was partly due to complex and diverse growth dynamics in monocultures that ranged from Allee effects to nonmonotonic behaviors. Overall, our results highlight that multi-stability might be generic in multispecies communities and, combined with ecological noise, can lead to unpredictable community assembly, even in simple environments.",
    "title": "Multi-stable bacterial communities exhibit extreme sensitivity to initial conditions.",
    "abstract": "It has long been anticipated that relating functional traits to species demography would be a cornerstone for achieving large-scale predictability of ecological systems. If such a relationship existed, species demography could be modeled only by measuring functional traits, transforming our ability to predict states and dynamics of species-rich communities with process-based community models. Here, we introduce a new method that links empirical functional traits with the demographic parameters of a process-based model by calibrating a transfer function through inverse modeling. As a case study, we parameterize a modified Lotka-Volterra model of a high-diversity mountain grassland with static plant community and functional trait data\u00a0only. The calibrated trait-demography relationships are amenable to ecological interpretation, and lead to species abundances\u00a0that fit well to the observed community structure. We conclude that our new method offers a general solution to bridge the divide between trait data and process-based models in species-rich ecosystems.",
    "title": "Linking functional traits and demography to model species-rich communities.",
    "abstract": "We analyze a general theory for coexistence and extinction of ecological communities that are influenced by stochastic temporal environmental fluctuations. The results apply to discrete time (stochastic difference equations), continuous time (stochastic differential equations), compact and non-compact state spaces and degenerate or non-degenerate noise. In addition, we can also include in the dynamics auxiliary variables that model environmental fluctuations, population structure, eco-environmental feedbacks or other internal or external factors. We are able to significantly generalize the recent discrete time results by Benaim and Schreiber (J Math Biol 79:393-431, 2019) to non-compact state spaces, and we provide stronger persistence and extinction results. The continuous time results by Hening and Nguyen (Ann Appl Probab 28(3):1893-1942, 2018a) are strengthened to include degenerate noise and auxiliary variables. Using the general theory, we work out several examples. In discrete time, we classify the dynamics when there are one or two species, and look at the Ricker model, Log-normally distributed offspring models, lottery models, discrete Lotka-Volterra models as well as models of perennial and annual organisms. For the continuous time setting we explore models with a resource variable, stochastic replicator models, and three dimensional Lotka-Volterra models.",
    "title": "A general theory of coexistence and extinction for stochastic ecological communities.",
    "abstract": "Understanding how multiple co-occurring environmental stressors combine to affect biodiversity and ecosystem services is an on-going grand challenge for ecology. Currently, progress has been made through accumulating large numbers of smaller-scale empirical studies that are then investigated by meta-analyses to detect general patterns. There is particular interest in detecting, understanding and predicting 'ecological surprises' where stressors interact in a non-additive (e.g. antagonistic or synergistic) manner, but so far few general results have emerged. However, the ability of the statistical tools to recover non-additive interactions in the face of data uncertainty is unstudied, so crucially, we do not know how well the empirical results reflect the true stressor interactions. Here, we investigate the performance of the commonly implemented additive null model. A meta-analysis of a large (545 interactions) empirical dataset for the effects of pairs of stressors on freshwater communities reveals additive interactions dominate individual studies, whereas pooling the data leads to an antagonistic summary interaction class. However, analyses of simulated data from food chain models, where the underlying interactions are known, suggest both sets of results may be due to observation error within the data. Specifically, we show that the additive null model is highly sensitive to observation error, with non-additive interactions being reliably detected at only unrealistically low levels of data uncertainty. Similarly, plausible levels of observation error lead to meta-analyses reporting antagonistic summary interaction classifications even when synergies co-dominate. Therefore, while our empirical results broadly agree with those of previous freshwater meta-analyses, we conclude these patterns may be driven by statistical sampling rather than any ecological mechanisms. Further investigation of candidate null models used to define stressor-pair interactions is essential, and once any artefacts are accounted for, the so-called 'ecological surprises' may be more frequent than was previously assumed.",
    "title": "Classifying ecosystem stressor interactions: Theory highlights the data limitations of the additive null model and the difficulty in revealing ecological surprises.",
    "abstract": "A decade ago, when the Human Microbiome Project was starting, urinary tract (UT) was not included because the bladder and urine were considered to be sterile. Today, we are presented with evidence that healthy UT possesses native microbiota and any major event disrupting its \"equilibrium\" can impact the host also. This dysbiosis often leads to cystitis symptoms, which is the most frequent lower UT complaint, especially among women. Cystitis is one of the most common causes of antimicrobial drugs prescriptions in primary and secondary care and an important contributor to the problem of antimicrobial resistance. Despite this fact, we still have trouble distinguishing whether the primary cause of majority of cystitis cases is a single pathogen overgrowth, or a systemic disorder affecting entire UT microbiota. There are relatively few studies monitoring changes and dynamics of UT microbiota in cystitis patients, making this field of research still an unknown. In this study variations to the UT microbiota of cystitis patients were identified and microbial dynamics has been modeled. The microbial genetic profile of urine samples from 28 patients was analyzed by 16S rDNA Illumina sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. One patient with bacterial cystitis symptoms was prescribed therapy based on national guideline recommendations on antibacterial treatment of urinary tract infections (UTI) and UT microbiota change was monitored by 16S rDNA sequencing on 24\u00a0h basis during the entire therapy duration. The results of sequencing implied that a particular class of bacteria is associated with majority of cystitis cases in this study. The contributing role of this class of bacteria - ",
    "title": "Modeling of Urinary Microbiota Associated With Cystitis.",
    "abstract": "In nature, different species compete among themselves for common resources and favorable habitat. Therefore, it becomes really important to determine the key factors in maintaining the bio-diversity. Also, some competing species follow cyclic competition in real world where the competitive dominance is characterized by a cyclic ordering. In this paper, we study the formation of a wide variety of spatiotemporal patterns including stationary, periodic, quasi-periodic and chaotic population distributions for a diffusive Lotka-Volterra type three-species cyclic competition model with two different types of cyclic ordering. For both types of cyclic ordering, the temporal dynamics of the corresponding non-spatial system show the extinction of two species through global bifurcations such as homoclinic and heteroclinic bifurcations. For the spatial system, we show that the existence of Turing patterns is possible for a particular cyclic ordering, while it is not the case for the other cyclic ordering through both the analytical and numerical methods. Further, we illustrate an interesting scenario of short-range invasion as opposed to the usual invasion phenomenon over the entire habitat. Also, our study reveals that both the stationary and dynamic population distributions can coexist in different parts of a habitat. Finally, we extend the spatial system by incorporating nonlocal intra-specific competition terms for all the three competing species. Our study shows that the introduction of nonlocality in intra-specific competitions stabilizes the system dynamics by transforming a dynamic population distribution to stationary. Surprisingly, this nonlocality-induced stationary pattern formation leads to the extinction of one species and hence, gives rise to the loss of bio-diversity for intermediate ranges of nonlocality. However, the bio-diversity can be restored for sufficiently large extent of nonlocality.",
    "title": "Pattern Formation in a Three-Species Cyclic Competition Model.",
    "abstract": "Ecological assembly is a fundamental and yet poorly understood process. Three main obstacles hinder the development of a theory of assembly, and when these issues are sidestepped by making strong assumptions, one can build an assembly graph in which nodes are ecological communities and edges are invasions shifting their composition. The graph can then be analysed directly, without the need to consider dynamics. To showcase this framework, we build and analyse assembly graphs for the competitive Lotka-Volterra model, showing that in these cases sequential assembly (in which species invade a community one at a time) can reach the same configurations found when starting the system with all species present at different initial conditions. We discuss how our results can advance our understanding of assembly both from an empirical and a theoretical point of view, informing the study of ecological restoration and the design of ecological communities.",
    "title": "Tractable models of ecological assembly.",
    "abstract": "In this study, we explore a stochastic age-dependent cooperative Lotka-Volterra (LV) system with an environmental noise. By applying the theory of M-matrix, we prove the existence and uniqueness of the global solution for the system. Since the stochastic age-dependent cooperative LV system cannot be solved explicitly, we then construct an Euler-Maruyama (EM) numerical solution to approach the exact solution of the system. The convergence rate and the pth-moment boundedness of the scheme have also been obtained. Additionally, numerical experiments have been conducted to verify our theoretical results.",
    "title": "The asymptotic stability of numerical analysis for stochastic age-dependent cooperative Lotka-Volterra system.",
    "abstract": "Native biodiversity is threatened by invasive species in many terrestrial and marine systems, and conservation managers have demonstrated successes by responding with eradication or control programs. Although invasive species are often the direct cause of threat to native species, ecosystems can react in unexpected ways to their removal or reduction. Here, we use theoretical models to predict boom-bust dynamics, where the removal of predatory or competitive pressure from a native herbivore results in oscillatory population dynamics (boom-bust), which can endanger the native species' population in the short term. We simulate control activities, applied to multiple theoretical three-species Lotka-Volterra ecosystem models consisting of vegetation, a native herbivore, and an invasive predator. Based on these communities, we then develop a predictive tool that-based on relative parameter values-predicts whether control efforts directed at the invasive predator will lead to herbivore release followed by a crash. Further, by investigating the different functional responses, we show that model structure, as well as model parameters, are important determinants of conservation outcomes. Finally, control strategies that can mitigate these negative consequences are identified. Managers working in similar data-poor ecosystems can use the predictive tool to assess the probability that their system will exhibit boom-bust dynamics, without knowing exact community parameter values.",
    "title": "Modeling herbivore functional responses causing boom-bust dynamics following predator removal.",
    "abstract": "The biodiversity and ecosystem functioning (BEF) relationship is expected to be scale-dependent. The autocorrelation of environmental heterogeneity is hypothesized to explain this scale dependence because it influences how quickly biodiversity accumulates over space or time. However, this link has yet to be demonstrated in a formal model. Here, we use a Lotka-Volterra competition model to simulate community dynamics when environmental conditions vary across either space or time. Species differ in their optimal environmental conditions, which results in turnover in community composition. We vary biodiversity by modelling communities with different sized regional species pools and ask how the amount of biomass per unit area depends on the number of species present, and the spatial or temporal scale at which it is measured. We find that more biodiversity is required to maintain functioning at larger temporal and spatial scales. The number of species required increases quickly when environmental autocorrelation is low, and slowly when autocorrelation is high. Both spatial and temporal environmental heterogeneity lead to scale dependence in BEF, but autocorrelation has larger impacts when environmental change is temporal. These findings show how the biodiversity required to maintain functioning is expected to increase over space and time.",
    "title": "Scaling up biodiversity-ecosystem functioning relationships: the role of environmental heterogeneity in space and time.",
    "abstract": "This article deals with the inclusion of microbial ecology measurements such as abundances of operational taxonomic units in bioprocess modelling. The first part presents the mathematical analysis of a model that may be framed within the class of Lotka-Volterra models fitted to experimental data in a chemostat setting where a nitrification process was operated for over 500 days. The limitations and the insights of such an approach are discussed. In the second part, the use of an optimal tracking technique (developed within the framework of control theory) for the integration of data from genetic sequencing in chemostat models is presented. The optimal tracking revisits the data used in the aforementioned chemostat setting. The resulting model is an explanatory model, not a predictive one, it is able to reconstruct the different forms of nitrogen in the reactor by using the abundances of the operational taxonomic units, providing some insights into the growth rate of microbes in a complex community.",
    "title": "Microbial Interactions as Drivers of a Nitrification Process in a Chemostat.",
    "abstract": "A meta-model of diffusively coupled Lotka-Volterra systems used to model various biomedical phenomena is considered in this paper. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of ",
    "title": "Higher order solitary solutions to the meta-model of diffusively coupled Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "To evaluate the future passenger car market related environmental impact, first, a competitive prediction model was introduced based on Lotka-Volterra model. Further, the limit of passenger car life cycle system is extended to analyze the scale of future energy consumption and pollutant emission. The proportion of new energy passenger cars, average rate of change in the quality of passenger cars, and the share of renewable energy power generation were used as evaluation indicators to conduct scenario simulations for assessing the environmental benefits under the following policy scenarios: lightweight, electrification, and end-use energy cleaning of automobile. The results show that market share of new energy passenger cars will surpass traditional passenger cars around 2040. The energy consumption per unit mileage of the four types of passenger cars throughout the life cycle is 3.88, 3.51, 3.23, and 3.72\u00a0MJ/km. Compared with traditional passenger cars, new energy passenger cars will decrease by 17%, but less than expected. The total amount of VOC, CO, and CHG emissions from passenger cars will reach the peak in 2030 and then rapidly decrease. The amount of NO",
    "title": "Forecast of passenger car market structure and environmental impact analysis in China.",
    "abstract": "In this paper I exploit Google searches for the topics \"symptoms\", \"unemployment\" and \"news\" as a proxy for how much attention people pay to the health and economic situation and the amount of news they consume, respectively. I then use an integrable nonautonomous Lotka-Volterra model to study the interactions among these searches in three U.S. States (Mississippi, Nevada and Utah), the District of Columbia and in the U.S. as a whole. I find that the results are very similar in all areas analyzed, and for different specifications of the model. Prior to the pandemic outbreak, the interactions among health searches, unemployment searches and news consumption are very weak, i.e. an increase in searches for one of these topics does not affect the amount of searches for the others. However, from around the beginning of the pandemic these interactions intensify greatly, suggesting that the pandemic has created a tight link between the health and economic situation and the amount of news people consume. I observe that from March 2020 unemployment predates searches for news and for symptoms. Consequently, whenever searches for unemployment increase, all the other searches decrease. Conversely, when searches for any of the other topics considered increase, searches for unemployment also increase. This underscores the importance of mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on unemployment to avoid that this issue swallows all others in the mind of the people.",
    "title": "How do Google searches for symptoms, news and unemployment interact during COVID-19? A Lotka-Volterra analysis of google trends data.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the global dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion-advection system for small diffusion rates in heterogenous environment. Our result suggests that the sign of $ \\int_{0}^{L}(m_{1}-m_{2})e^{kx}dx $ plays a significant role in understanding the global dynamics. In addition, the limiting behavior of coexistence steady state is obtained when diffusion rates of two species tend to zero meanwhile.",
    "title": "Global dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion-advection system for small diffusion rates in heterogenous environment.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we consider the following Lotka-Volterra competition system with dynamical resources and density-dependent diffusion in a bounded smooth domain [Formula: see text] with homogeneous Neumann boundary conditions, where the parameters [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text] ([Formula: see text]) are positive constants, m(x) is the prey's resource, and the dispersal rate function [Formula: see text] satisfies the the following hypothesis: [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text] on [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text]. When m(x) is constant, we show that the system (*) with has a unique global classical solution when the initial datum is in functional space [Formula: see text] with [Formula: see text]. By constructing appropriate Lyapunov functionals and using LaSalle's invariant principle, we further prove that the solution of (*) converges to the co-existence steady state exponentially or competitive exclusion steady state algebraically as time tends to infinity in different parameter regimes. Our results reveal that once the resource w has temporal dynamics, two competitors may coexist in the case of weak competition regardless of their dispersal rates and initial values no matter whether there is explicit dependence in dispersal or not. When the prey's resource is spatially heterogeneous (i.e. m(x) is non-constant), we use numerical simulations to demonstrate that the striking phenomenon \"slower diffuser always prevails\" (cf. Dockery et al. in J Math Biol 37(1):61-83, 1998; Lou in J Differ Equ 223(2):400-426, 2006) fails to appear if the non-random dispersal strategy is employed by competing species (i.e. either [Formula: see text] or [Formula: see text] is non-constant) while it still holds true if both d(w) and [Formula: see text] are constant.",
    "title": "On the Lotka-Volterra competition system with dynamical resources and density-dependent diffusion.",
    "abstract": "[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.00288.].",
    "title": "Corrigendum: Web-gLV: A Web Based Platform for Lotka-Volterra Based Modeling and Simulation of Microbial Populations.",
    "abstract": "Resilience is broadly understood as the ability of an ecological system to resist and recover from perturbations acting on species abundances and on the system's structure. However, one of the main problems in assessing resilience is to understand the extent to which measures of recovery and resistance provide complementary information about a system. While recovery from abundance perturbations has a strong tradition under the analysis of dynamical stability, it is unclear whether this same formalism can be used to measure resistance to structural perturbations (e.g. perturbations to model parameters). Here, we provide a framework grounded on dynamical and structural stability in Lotka-Volterra systems to link recovery from small perturbations on species abundances (i.e. dynamical indicators) with resistance to parameter perturbations of any magnitude (i.e. structural indicators). We use theoretical and experimental multispecies systems to show that the faster the recovery from abundance perturbations, the higher the resistance to parameter perturbations. We first use theoretical systems to show that the return rate along the slowest direction after a small random abundance perturbation (what we call full recovery) is negatively correlated with the largest random parameter perturbation that a system can withstand before losing any species (what we call full resistance). We also show that the return rate along the second fastest direction after a small random abundance perturbation (what we call partial recovery) is negatively correlated with the largest random parameter perturbation that a system can withstand before at most one species survives (what we call partial resistance). Then, we use a dataset of experimental microbial systems to confirm our theoretical expectations and to demonstrate that full and partial components of resilience are complementary. Our findings reveal that we can obtain the same level of information about resilience by measuring either a dynamical (i.e. recovery) or a structural (i.e. resistance) indicator. Irrespective of the chosen indicator (dynamical or structural), our results show that we can obtain additional information by separating the indicator into its full and partial components. We believe these results can motivate new theoretical approaches and empirical analyses to increase our understanding about risk in ecological systems.",
    "title": "Merging dynamical and structural indicators to measure resilience in multispecies systems.",
    "abstract": "The biomass ratio of herbivores to primary producers reflects the structure of a community. Four primary factors have been proposed to affect this ratio, including production rate, defense traits and nutrient contents of producers, and predation by carnivores. However, identifying the joint effects of these factors across natural communities has been elusive, in part because of the lack of a framework for examining their effects simultaneously. Here, we develop a framework based on Lotka-Volterra equations for examining the effects of these factors on the biomass ratio. We then utilize it to test if these factors simultaneously affect the biomass ratio of freshwater plankton communities. We found that all four factors contributed significantly to the biomass ratio, with carnivore abundance having the greatest effect, followed by producer stoichiometric nutrient content. Thus, the present framework should be useful for examining the multiple factors shaping various types of communities, both aquatic and terrestrial.",
    "title": "A unified framework for herbivore-to-producer biomass ratio reveals the relative influence of four ecological factors.",
    "abstract": "AbstractDespite the rich biodiversity found in nature, it is unclear to what extent some combinations of interacting species, while conceivable in a given place and time, may never be realized. Yet solving this problem is important for understanding the role of randomness and predictability in the assembly of ecological communities. Here we show that the specific combinations of interacting species that emerge from the ecological dynamics within regional species pools are not all equally likely to be seen; rather, they are among the most likely to persist under changing environments. First, we use niche-based competition matrices and Lotka-Volterra models to demonstrate that realized combinations of interacting species are more likely to persist under random parameter perturbations than the majority of potential combinations with the same number of species that could have been formed from the regional pool. We then corroborate our theoretical results using a 10-year observational study, recording 88 plant-herbivore communities across three different forest successional stages. By inferring and validating plant-mediated communities of competing herbivore species, we find that observed combinations of herbivores have an expected probability of species persistence higher than half of all potential combinations. Our findings open up the opportunity to establish a formal probabilistic and predictive understanding of the composition of ecological communities.",
    "title": "Observed Ecological Communities Are Formed by Species Combinations That Are among the Most Likely to Persist under Changing Environments.",
    "abstract": "A hallmark of topological phases is the occurrence of topologically protected modes at the system's boundary. Here, we find topological phases in the antisymmetric Lotka-Volterra equation (ALVE). The ALVE is a nonlinear dynamical system and describes, for example, the evolutionary dynamics of a rock-paper-scissors cycle. On a one-dimensional chain of rock-paper-scissor cycles, topological phases become manifest as robust polarization states. At the transition point between left and right polarization, solitary waves are observed. This topological phase transition lies in symmetry class D within the \"tenfold way\" classification as also realized by 1D topological superconductors.",
    "title": "Topological Phase Transition in Coupled Rock-Paper-Scissors Cycles.",
    "abstract": "Natural environments, like soils or the mammalian gut, frequently contain microbial consortia competing within a niche, wherein many species contain genetically encoded mechanisms of interspecies competition. Recent computational work suggests that physical structures in the environment can stabilize local competition between species that would otherwise be subject to competitive exclusion under isotropic conditions. Here we employ Lotka-Volterra models to show that interfacial competition localizes to physical structures, stabilizing competitive ecological networks of many species, even with significant differences in the strength of competitive interactions between species. Within a limited range of parameter space, we show that for stable communities the length-scale of physical structure inversely correlates with the width of the distribution of competitive fitness, such that physical environments with finer structure can sustain a broader spectrum of interspecific competition. These results highlight the potentially stabilizing effects of physical structure on microbial communities and lay groundwork for engineering structures that stabilize and/or select for diverse communities of ecological, medical, or industrial utility.",
    "title": "Structured environments foster competitor coexistence by manipulating interspecies interfaces.",
    "abstract": "This paper aims to assess the territorial resilience of a socio-ecological system through an innovative integrated evaluation framework to aid the decision-making process in the planning of transformation scenarios. This framework employs a set of resilience indicators through a Multicriteria Decision Analysis (MCDA) coupled with a Lotka-Volterra mathematical model of cooperative type. The set of indicators aims to calculate a composite index of Territorial Resilience (TRI), whereas the mathematical model is an extension of an existing model, aimed to predict possible long-time scenarios. The proposed operational framework for rural and vineyard landscapes aims to bridge the existing gap between territorial resilience theory and practice, with an innovative Decision Support System able to assist Decision Makers and territory planners in the planning and management of resilient territorial systems. This integrated evaluation framework is applied to a famous wine region in Portugal, the Douro Valley, where Port-wine grows. Such framework, especially in a context of adaptive governance, proves to be a suitable support in the field of landscape and urban planning to evaluate the dynamics of socio-ecological systems and to envision long-term policies and actions.",
    "title": "A decision support system for territorial resilience assessment and planning: An application to the Douro Valley (Portugal).",
    "abstract": "Point 1: The ecological models of Alfred J. Lotka and Vito Volterra have had an enormous impact on ecology over the past century. Some of the earliest-and clearest-experimental tests of these models were famously conducted by Georgy Gause in the 1930s. Although well known, the data from these experiments are not widely available and are often difficult to analyze using standard statistical and computational tools. Point 2: Here, we introduce the gauseR package, a collection of tools for fitting Lotka-Volterra models to time series data of one or more species. The package includes several methods for parameter estimation and optimization, and includes 42 datasets from Gause's species interaction experiments and related work. Additionally, we include with this paper a short blog post discussing the historical importance of these data and models, and an R vignette with a walk-through introducing the package methods. The package is available for download at github.com/adamtclark/gauseR. Point 3: To demonstrate the package, we apply it to several classic experimental studies from Gause, as well as two other well-known datasets on multi-trophic dynamics on Isle Royale, and in spatially structured mite populations. In almost all cases, models fit observations closely and fitted parameter values make ecological sense. Point 4: Taken together, we hope that the methods, data, and analyses that we present here provide a simple and user-friendly way to interact with complex ecological data. We are optimistic that these methods will be especially useful to students and educators who are studying ecological dynamics, as well as researchers who would like a fast tool for basic analyses.",
    "title": "gauseR: Simple methods for fitting Lotka-Volterra models describing Gause's \"Struggle for Existence\".",
    "abstract": "In many applications of interacting systems, we are only interested in the dynamic behavior of a subset of all possible active species. For example, this is true in combustion models (many transient chemical species are not of interest in a given reaction) and in epidemiological models (only certain subpopulations are consequential). Thus, it is common to use greatly reduced or partial models in which only the interactions among the species of interest are known. In this work, we explore the use of an embedded, sparse, and data-driven discrepancy operator to augment these partial interaction models. Preliminary results show that the model error caused by severe reductions-e.g., elimination of hundreds of terms-can be captured with sparse operators, built with only a small fraction of that number. The operator is embedded within the differential equations of the model, which allows the action of the operator to be interpretable. Moreover, it is constrained by available physical information and calibrated over many scenarios. These qualities of the discrepancy model-interpretability, physical consistency, and robustness to different scenarios-are intended to support reliable predictions under extrapolative conditions.",
    "title": "Data-Driven Corrections of Partial Lotka-Volterra Models.",
    "abstract": "We present a biological fractional ",
    "title": "Fractional Lotka-Volterra-Type Cooperation Models: Impulsive Control on Their Stability Behavior.",
    "abstract": "In this study, the bioprotective potential of Lactobacillus sakei CTC494 against Listeria monocytogenes CTC1034 was evaluated on vacuum packaged hot-smoked sea bream at 5\u00a0\u00b0C and dynamic temperatures ranging from 3 to 12\u00a0\u00b0C. The capacity of three microbial competition interaction models to describe the inhibitory effect of L. sakei CTC494 on L. monocytogenes was assessed based on the Jameson effect and Lotka-Volterra approaches. A sensory analysis was performed to evaluate the spoiling capacity of L. sakei CTC494 on the smoked fish product at 5\u00a0\u00b0C. Based on the sensory results, the bioprotection strategy against the pathogen was established by inoculating the product at a 1:2 ratio (pathogen:bioprotector, log CFU/g). The kinetic growth parameters of both microorganisms were estimated in mono-culture at constant storage (5\u00a0\u00b0C). In addition, the inhibition function parameters of the tested interaction models were estimated in co-culture at constant and dynamic temperature storage using as input the mono-culture kinetic parameters. The growth potential (\u03b4 log) of L. monocytogenes, in mono-culture, was 3.5 log on smoked sea bream during the experimental period (20 days). In co-culture, L. sakei CTC494 significantly reduced the capability of L. monocytogenes to grow, although its effectiveness was temperature dependent. The LAB strain limited the growth of the pathogen under storage at 5\u00a0\u00b0C (<1 log increase) and at dynamic profile 2 (<2 log increase). Besides, under storage at dynamic profile 1, the growth of L. monocytogenes was inhibited (<0.5 log increase). These results confirmed the efficacy of L. sakei CTC494 for controlling the pathogen growth on the studied fish product. The Lotka-Volterra competition model showed slightly better fit to the observed L. monocytogenes growth response than the Jameson-based models according to the statistical performance. The proposed modelling approach could support the assessment and establishment of bioprotective culture-based strategies aimed at reducing the risk of listeriosis linked to the consumption of RTE hot-smoked sea bream.",
    "title": "Quantifying the bioprotective effect of Lactobacillus sakei CTC494 against Listeria monocytogenes on vacuum packaged hot-smoked sea bream.",
    "abstract": "Finding a compromise between tractability and realism has always been at the core of ecological modelling. The introduction of nonlinear functional responses in two-species models has reconciled part of this compromise. However, it remains unclear whether this compromise can be extended to multispecies models. Yet, answering this question is necessary in order to differentiate whether the explanatory power of a model comes from the general form of its polynomial or from a more realistic description of multispecies systems. Here, we study the probability of feasibility (the existence of at least one positive real equilibrium) in complex models by adding higher-order interactions and nonlinear functional responses to the linear Lotka-Volterra model. We characterize complexity by the number of free-equilibrium points generated by a model, which is a function of the polynomial degree and system's dimension. We show that the probability of generating a feasible system in a model is an increasing function of its complexity, regardless of the specific mechanism invoked. Furthermore, we find that the probability of feasibility in a model will exceed that of the linear Lotka-Volterra model when a minimum level of complexity is reached. Importantly, this minimum level is modulated by parameter restrictions, but can always be exceeded via increasing the polynomial degree or system's dimension. Our results reveal that conclusions regarding the relevance of mechanisms embedded in complex models must be evaluated in relation to the expected explanatory power of their polynomial forms.",
    "title": "Ecological models: higher complexity in, higher feasibility out.",
    "abstract": "Adaptive therapy seeks to exploit intratumoral competition to avoid, or at least delay, the emergence of therapy resistance in cancer. Motivated by promising results in prostate cancer, there is growing interest in extending this approach to other neoplasms. As such, it is urgent to understand the characteristics of a cancer that determine whether or not it will respond well to adaptive therapy. A plausible candidate for such a selection criterion is the fitness cost of resistance. In this article, we study a general, but simple, mathematical model to investigate whether the presence of a cost is necessary for adaptive therapy to extend the time to progression beyond that of a standard-of-care continuous therapy. Tumor cells were divided into sensitive and resistant populations and we model their competition using a system of two ordinary differential equations based on the Lotka-Volterra model. For tumors close to their environmental carrying capacity, a cost was not required. However, for tumors growing far from carrying capacity, a cost may be required to see meaningful gains. Notably, it is important to consider cell turnover in the tumor, and we discuss its role in modulating the impact of a resistance cost. To conclude, we present evidence for the predicted cost-turnover interplay in data from 67 patients with prostate cancer undergoing intermittent androgen deprivation therapy. Our work helps to clarify under which circumstances adaptive therapy may be beneficial and suggests that turnover may play an unexpectedly important role in the decision-making process. SIGNIFICANCE: Tumor cell turnover modulates the speed of selection against drug resistance by amplifying the effects of competition and resistance costs; as such, turnover is an important factor in resistance management via adaptive therapy.",
    "title": "Turnover Modulates the Need for a Cost of Resistance in Adaptive Therapy.",
    "abstract": "Multi-type infection processes are ubiquitous in ecology, epidemiology and social systems, but remain hard to analyze and to understand on a fundamental level. Here, we study a multi-strain susceptible-infected-susceptible model with coinfection. A host already colonized by one strain can become more or less vulnerable to co-colonization by a second strain, as a result of facilitating or competitive interactions between the two. Fitness differences between N strains are mediated through [Formula: see text] altered susceptibilities to secondary infection that depend on colonizer-cocolonizer identities ([Formula: see text]). By assuming strain similarity in such pairwise traits, we derive a model reduction for the endemic system using separation of timescales. This 'quasi-neutrality' in trait space sets a fast timescale where all strains interact neutrally, and a slow timescale where selective dynamics unfold. We find that these slow dynamics are governed by the replicator equation for N strains. Our framework allows to build the community dynamics bottom-up from only pairwise invasion fitnesses between members. We highlight that mean fitness of the multi-strain network, changes with their individual dynamics, acts equally upon each type, and is a key indicator of system resistance to invasion. By uncovering the link between N-strain epidemiological coexistence and the replicator equation, we show that the ecology of co-colonization relates to Fisher's fundamental theorem and to Lotka-Volterra systems. Besides efficient computation and complexity reduction for any system size, these results open new perspectives into high-dimensional community ecology, detection of species interactions, and evolution of biodiversity.",
    "title": "Predicting N-Strain Coexistence from Co-colonization Interactions: Epidemiology Meets Ecology and the Replicator Equation.",
    "abstract": "Modern cancer immunotherapy has revolutionised oncology and carries the potential to radically change the approach to cancer treatment. However, numerous questions remain to be answered to understand immunotherapy response better and further improve the benefit for future cancer patients. Computational models are promising tools that can contribute to accelerated immunotherapy research by providing new clues and hypotheses that could be tested in future trials, based on preceding simulations in addition to the empirical rationale. In this topical review, we briefly summarise the history of cancer immunotherapy, including computational modelling of traditional cancer immunotherapy, and comprehensively review computational models of modern cancer immunotherapy, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (as monotherapy and combination treatment), co-stimulatory agonistic antibodies, bispecific antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptor T cells. The modelling approaches are classified into one of the following categories: data-driven top-down vs mechanistic bottom-up, simplistic vs detailed, continuous vs discrete, and hybrid. Several common modelling approaches are summarised, such as pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic models, Lotka-Volterra models, evolutionary game theory models, quantitative systems pharmacology models, spatio-temporal models, agent-based models, and logic-based models. Pros and cons of each modelling approach are critically discussed, particularly with the focus on the potential for successful translation into immuno-oncology research and routine clinical practice. Specific attention is paid to calibration and validation of each model, which is a necessary prerequisite for any successful model, and at the same time, one of the main obstacles. Lastly, we provide guidelines and suggestions for the future development of the field.",
    "title": "Computational modelling of modern cancer immunotherapy.",
    "abstract": "With increasing resolution of microbial diversity at the genomic level, experimental and modeling frameworks that translate such diversity into phenotypes are highly needed. This is particularly important when comparing drug-resistant with drug-sensitive pathogen strains, when anticipating epidemiological implications of microbial diversity, and when designing control measures. Classical approaches quantify differences between microbial strains using the exponential growth model, and typically report a selection coefficient for the relative fitness differential between two strains. The apparent simplicity of such approaches comes with the costs of limiting the range of biological scenarios that can be captured, and biases strain fitness estimates to polarized extremes of competitive exclusion. Here, we propose a mathematical and statistical framework based on the Lotka-Volterra model, that can capture frequency-dependent competition between microbial strains within-host and upon transmission. As a ",
    "title": "Modeling Competitive Mixtures With the Lotka-Volterra Framework for More Complex Fitness Assessment Between Strains.",
    "abstract": "Mixed culture wine fermentations combining species within the ",
    "title": "Temperature Shapes Ecological Dynamics in Mixed Culture Fermentations Driven by Two Species of the ",
    "abstract": "We first present a predator-prey model for two species and then extend the model to three species where the two predator species engage in mutualistic predation. Constant effort harvesting and the impact of by-catch issue are also incorporated. Necessary sufficient conditions for the existence and stability of positive equilibrium points are examined. It is shown that harvesting is sustainable, and the memory concept of the fractional derivative damps out oscillations in the population numbers so that the system as a whole settles on an equilibrium quicker than it would with integer time derivatives. Finally, some possible physical explanations are given for the obtained results. It is shown that the stability requires the memory concept in the model.",
    "title": "Memory and mutualism in species sustainability: A time-fractional Lotka-Volterra model with harvesting.",
    "abstract": "Microbial Interaction Networks (MINs) provide important information for understanding bacterial communities. MINs can be inferred by examining microbial abundance profiles. Abundance profiles are often interpreted with the Lotka Volterra model in research. However existing research fails to consider a biologically meaningful underlying mathematical model for MINs or to address the possibility of multiple solutions.\nIn this paper we present IMPARO, a method for inferring microbial interactions through parameter optimisation. We use biologically meaningful models for both the abundance profile, as well as the MIN. We show how multiple MINs could be inferred with similar reconstructed abundance profile accuracy, and argue that a unique solution is not always satisfactory. Using our method, we successfully inferred clear interactions in the gut microbiome which have been previously observed in in-vitro experiments.\nIMPARO was used to successfully infer microbial interactions in human microbiome samples as well as in a varied set of simulated data. The work also highlights the importance of considering multiple solutions for MINs.",
    "title": "IMPARO: inferring microbial interactions through parameter optimisation.",
    "abstract": "To investigate the structural changes of a food-web architecture, we considered real data coming from a soil food web in one abandoned pasture with former low-pressure agriculture management and we reproduced the corresponding ecological network within a multi-agent fully programmable modeling environment in order to simulate dynamically the cascading effects due to the removal of entire functional guilds.We performed several simulations differing from each other for the functional implications. At the first trophic level, we simulated a removal of the prey, that is, herbivores and microbivores, while at the second trophic level, we simulated a removal of the predators, that is, omnivores and carnivores. The five main guilds were removed either separately or in combination.The alteration in the food-web architecture induced by the removal of entire functional guilds was the highest when the entire second trophic level was removed, while the removal of all microbivores caused an alteration in the food-web structure of less than 5% of the total changes due to the removal of opportunistic and predatory species.Omnivores alone account for the highest shifts in time of the numerical abundances of the remaining species, providing computational evidence of the importance of the degree of omnivory in the stabilization of soil biota.",
    "title": "Testing for top-down cascading effects in a biomass-driven ecological network of soil invertebrates.",
    "abstract": "This work deals with the speed sign of travelling waves to the Lotka-Volterra model with diffusion and bistable nonlinearity. We obtain new conditions for the determinacy of the sign of the bistable wave speed by constructing upper or lower solutions with an inside parameter to be adjusted. The established conditions improve or supplement the results in the references and give insight into the combined effect of system parameters on the propagation direction of the bistable wave.",
    "title": "Bistable wave speed of the Lotka-Volterra competition model.",
    "abstract": "We analyze properties of experimental microbial time series, from plankton and the human microbiome, and investigate whether stochastic generalized Lotka-Volterra models could reproduce those properties. We show that this is the case when the noise term is large and a linear function of the species abundance, while the strength of the self-interactions varies over multiple orders of magnitude. We stress the fact that all the observed stochastic properties can be obtained from a logistic model, that is, without interactions, even the niche character of the experimental time series. Linear noise is associated with growth rate stochasticity, which is related to changes in the environment. This suggests that fluctuations in the sparsely sampled experimental time series may be caused by extrinsic sources.",
    "title": "Stochastic logistic models reproduce experimental time series of microbial communities.",
    "abstract": "We first consider a diffusive logistic model of a single species in a heterogeneous environment, with two parameters, r(x) for intrinsic growth rate and K(x) for carrying capacity. When r(x) and K(x) are proportional, i.e., [Formula: see text], it is proved by Lou (J Differ Equ 223(2):400-426, 2006) that a population diffusing at any rate will reach a higher total equilibrium biomass than the population in an environment in which the same total resources are distributed homogeneously. This paper studies another case when r(x) is a constant, i.e., independent of K(x). In such case, a striking result is that for any dispersal rate, the logistic equation with spatially heterogeneous resources will always support a total population strictly smaller than the total carrying capacity at equilibrium, which is just opposite to the case [Formula: see text]. These two cases of single species models also lead to two different forms of Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion systems. We then examine the consequences of the aforementioned difference on the two forms of competition systems. We find that the outcome of the competition in terms of the dispersal rates and spatial distributions of resources for the two forms of competition systems are again quite different. Our results indicate that in heterogeneous environments, the correlation between r(x) and K(x) has more profound impacts in population ecology than we had previously expected, at least from a mathematical point of view.",
    "title": "On the effects of carrying capacity and intrinsic growth rate on single and multiple species in spatially heterogeneous environments.",
    "abstract": "We study the dynamics of a ring of patches with vegetation-prey-predator populations, coupled through interactions of the Lotka-Volterra type. We find that the system yields aperiodic, recurrent and rare explosive bursts of predator density in a few isolated spatial patches from time to time. Further, the global predator biomass also exhibits sudden uncorrelated occurrences of large deviations from the mean as the coupled system evolves. The maximum value of the predator population in a patch, as well as the maximum value of the predator biomass, increases with coupling strength. These trends are further corroborated by fits to Generalized Extreme Value distributions, where the location and scale factor of the distribution increases markedly with coupling strength, indicating the crucial role of coupling interactions in the generation of extreme events. These results indicate how occurrences of extremely large predator populations can emerge in coupled population dynamics, and in a more general context they suggest a generic class of deterministic nonlinear systems that can naturally exhibit extreme events.",
    "title": "Advent of extreme events in predator populations.",
    "abstract": "The generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) equations are a mathematical proxy for ecological dynamics. We focus on a gLV model of the gut microbiome, in which the evolution of the gut microbial state is determined in part by pairwise interspecies interaction parameters that encode environmentally mediated resource competition between microbes. We develop an in silico method that controls the steady-state outcome of the system by adjusting these interaction parameters. This approach is confined to a bistable region of the gLV model. In this method, a dimensionality reduction technique called steady-state reduction (SSR) is first used to generate a two-dimensional (2D) gLV model that approximates the high-dimensional dynamics on the 2D subspace spanned by the two steady states. Then a bifurcation analysis of the 2D model analytically determines parameter modifications that drive an initial condition to a target steady state. This parameter modification of the reduced 2D model guides parameter modifications of the original high-dimensional model, resulting in a change of steady-state outcome in the high-dimensional model. This control method, called SSR-guided parameter change (SPARC), bypasses the computational challenge of directly determining parameter modifications in the original high-dimensional system. SPARC could guide the development of indirect bacteriotherapies, which seek to change microbial compositions by deliberately modifying gut environmental variables such as gut acidity or macronutrient availability.",
    "title": "Control of ecological outcomes through deliberate parameter changes in a model of the gut microbiome.",
    "abstract": "We study the occurrence of chaos in the Atkinson-Allen model of four competing species, which plays the role as a discrete-time Lotka-Volterra-type model. We show that in this model chaos can be generated by a cascade of quasiperiod-doubling bifurcations starting from a supercritical Neimark-Sacker bifurcation of the unique positive fixed point. The chaotic attractor is contained in a globally attracting invariant manifold of codimension one, known as the carrying simplex. Biologically, our study implies that the invasion attempts by an invader into a trimorphic population under Atkinson-Allen dynamics can lead to chaos.",
    "title": "Chaotic attractors in Atkinson-Allen model of four competing species.",
    "abstract": "This article investigates the finite-time asynchronous control problem for continuous-time positive hidden Markov jump systems (HMJSs) by using the Takagi-Sugeno fuzzy model method. Different from the existing methods, the Markov jump systems under consideration are considered with the hidden Markov model in the continuous-time case, that is, the Markov model consists of the hidden state and the observed state. We aim to derive a suitable controller that depends on the observation mode which makes the closed-loop fuzzy HMJSs be stochastically finite-time bounded and positive, and fulfill the given L",
    "title": "Finite-Time L",
    "abstract": "It has recently become apparent that the diversity of microbial life extends far below the species level to the finest scales of genetic differences. Remarkably, extensive fine-scale diversity can coexist spatially. How is this diversity stable on long timescales, despite selective or ecological differences and other evolutionary processes? Most work has focused on stable coexistence or assumed ecological neutrality. We present an alternative: extensive diversity maintained by ecologically driven spatiotemporal chaos, with no assumptions about niches or other specialist differences between strains. We study generalized Lotka-Volterra models with antisymmetric correlations in the interactions inspired by multiple pathogen strains infecting multiple host strains. Generally, these exhibit chaos with increasingly wild population fluctuations driving extinctions. But the simplest spatial structure, many identical islands with migration between them, stabilizes a diverse chaotic state. Some strains (subspecies) go globally extinct, but many persist for times exponentially long in the number of islands. All persistent strains have episodic local blooms to high abundance, crucial for their persistence as, for many, their average population growth rate is negative. Snapshots of the abundance distribution show a power law at intermediate abundances that is essentially indistinguishable from the neutral theory of ecology. But the dynamics of the large populations are much faster than birth-death fluctuations. We argue that this spatiotemporally chaotic \"phase\" should exist in a wide range of models, and that even in rapidly mixed systems, longer-lived spores could similarly stabilize a diverse chaotic phase.",
    "title": "Stabilization of extensive fine-scale diversity by ecologically driven spatiotemporal chaos.",
    "abstract": "Anaerobic digestion is a technology known for its potential in terms of methane production. During the digestion process, multiple metabolites of high value are synthesized. However, recent works have demonstrated the high robustness and resilience of the involved microbiomes; these attributes make it difficult to manipulate them in such a way that a specific metabolite is predominantly produced. Therefore, an exact understanding of the manipulability of anaerobic microbiomes may open up a treasure box for bio-based industries. In the present work, the effect of nalidixic acid, \u03b3-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and sodium phosphate on the microbiome of digested sewage sludge from a water treatment plant fed with glucose was investigated. Despite of the induced process perturbations, high stability was observed at the phylum level. However, strong variations were observed at the genus level, especially for the genera ",
    "title": "Chemically Stressed Bacterial Communities in Anaerobic Digesters Exhibit Resilience and Ecological Flexibility.",
    "abstract": "Dynamic changes in microbial communities play an important role in human health and disease. Specifically, deciphering how microbial species in a community interact with each other and their environment can elucidate mechanisms of disease, a problem typically investigated using tools from community ecology. Yet, such methods require measurements of absolute densities, whereas typical datasets only provide estimates of relative abundances. Here, we systematically investigate models of microbial dynamics in the simplex of relative abundances. We derive a new nonlinear dynamical system for microbial dynamics, termed \"compositional\" Lotka-Volterra (cLV), unifying approaches using generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) equations from community ecology and compositional data analysis. On three real datasets, we demonstrate that cLV recapitulates interactions between relative abundances implied by gLV. Moreover, we show that cLV is as accurate as gLV in forecasting microbial trajectories in terms of relative abundances. We further compare cLV to two other models of relative abundance dynamics motivated by common assumptions in the literature-a linear model in a log-ratio transformed space, and a linear model in the space of relative abundances-and provide evidence that cLV more accurately describes community trajectories over time. Finally, we investigate when information about direct effects can be recovered from relative data that naively provide information about only indirect effects. Our results suggest that strong effects may be recoverable from relative data, but more subtle effects are challenging to identify.",
    "title": "Compositional Lotka-Volterra describes microbial dynamics in the simplex.",
    "abstract": "The effect of environmental fluctuations is a major question in ecology. While it is widely accepted that fluctuations and other types of disturbances can increase biodiversity, there are fewer examples of other types of outcomes in a fluctuating environment. Here we explore this question with laboratory microcosms, using cocultures of two bacterial species, P. putida and P. veronii. At low dilution rates we observe competitive exclusion of P. veronii, whereas at high dilution rates we observe competitive exclusion of P. putida. When the dilution rate alternates between high and low, we do not observe coexistence between the species, but rather alternative stable states, in which only one species survives and initial species' fractions determine the identity of the surviving species. The Lotka-Volterra model with a fluctuating mortality rate predicts that this outcome is independent of the timing of the fluctuations, and that the time-averaged mortality would also lead to alternative stable states, a prediction that we confirm experimentally. Other pairs of species can coexist in a fluctuating environment, and again consistent with the model we observe coexistence in the time-averaged dilution rate. We find a similar time-averaging result holds in a three-species community, highlighting that simple linear models can in some cases provide powerful insight into how communities will respond to environmental fluctuations.",
    "title": "Microbial communities display alternative stable states in a fluctuating environment.",
    "abstract": "A set of axioms is formulated characterizing ecologically plausible community dynamics. Using these axioms, it is proved that the transients following an invasion into a sufficiently stable equilibrium community by a mutant phenotype similar to one of the community's finitely many resident phenotypes can always be approximated by means of an appropriately chosen Lotka-Volterra model. To this end, the assumption is made that similar phenotypes in the community form clusters that are well-separated from each other, as is expected to be generally the case when evolution proceeds through small mutational steps. Each phenotypic cluster is represented by a single phenotype, which we call an approximate phenotype and assign the cluster's total population density. We present our results in three steps. First, for a set of approximate phenotypes with arbitrary equilibrium population densities before the invasion, the Lotka-Volterra approximation is proved to apply if the changes of the population densities of these phenotypes are sufficiently small during the transient following the invasion. Second, quantitative conditions for such small changes of population densities are derived as a relationship between within-cluster differences and the leading eigenvalue of the community's Jacobian matrix evaluated at the equilibrium population densities before the invasion. Third, to demonstrate the utility of our results, the 'invasion implies substitution' result for monomorphic populations is extended to arbitrarily polymorphic populations consisting of well-recognizable and -separated clusters.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra approximations for evolutionary trait-substitution processes.",
    "abstract": "Dynamical shifts between the extremes of stability and collapse are hallmarks of ecological systems. These shifts are limited by and change with biodiversity, complexity, and the topology and hierarchy of interactions. Most ecological research has focused on identifying conditions for a system to shift from stability to any degree of instability-species abundances do not return to exact same values after perturbation. Real ecosystems likely have a continuum of shifting between stability and collapse that depends on the specifics of how the interactions are structured, as well as the type and degree of disturbance due to environmental change. Here we map boundaries for the extremes of strict stability and collapse. In between these boundaries, we find an intermediate regime that consists of single-species extinctions, which we call the extinction continuum. We also develop a metric that locates the position of the system within the extinction continuum-thus quantifying proximity to stability or collapse-in terms of ecologically measurable quantities such as growth rates and interaction strengths. Furthermore, we provide analytical and numerical techniques for estimating our new metric. We show that our metric does an excellent job of capturing the system's behaviour in comparison with other existing methods-such as May's stability criteria or critical slowdown. Our metric should thus enable deeper insights about how to classify real systems in terms of their overall dynamics and their limits of stability and collapse.",
    "title": "Predicting collapse of complex ecological systems: quantifying the stability-complexity continuum.",
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to obtain the growth parameters of specific spoilage micro-organisms previously isolated in minced pork (MP) samples and to develop a three-spoilage species interaction model under different storage conditions. Naturally contaminated samples were used to validate this approach by considering the effect of the food microbiota. Three groups of bacteria were inoculated on irradiated samples, in mono- and in co-culture experiments (",
    "title": "Modeling the Growth and Interaction Between ",
    "abstract": "We investigate the outcome of generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamics of ecological communities with random interaction coefficients and nonlinear feedback. We show in simulations that the saturation of nonlinear feedback stabilizes the dynamics. This is confirmed in an analytical generating-functional approach to generalized Lotka-Volterra equations with piecewise linear saturating response. For such systems we are able to derive self-consistent relations governing the stable fixed-point phase and to carry out a linear stability analysis to predict the onset of unstable behavior. We investigate in detail the combined effects of the mean, variance, and covariance of the random interaction coefficients, and the saturation value of the nonlinear response. We find that stability and diversity increases with the introduction of nonlinear feedback, where decreasing the saturation value has a similar effect to decreasing the covariance. We also find cooperation to no longer have a detrimental effect on stability with nonlinear feedback, and the order parameters mean abundance and diversity to be less dependent on the symmetry of interactions with stronger saturation.",
    "title": "Ecological communities from random generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamics with nonlinear feedback.",
    "abstract": "Ecosystems and food webs are structured into trophic levels of who eats whom. Species that occupy higher trophic levels have less available energy and higher energetic costs than species at lower trophic levels. So why do higher trophic levels exist? What processes generate new trophic levels? We consider a heuristic eco-evolutionary model based on simple Lotka-Volterra equations, where the evolution of traits is described by a generalisation of Lande's equation. The transition from competition to predation in this simplest of models is a successful, safe strategy for a population, and suggests a propensity to develop new trophic levels may be an inherent property of ecosystems. Numerical simulations with a more complex eco-evolutionary model of interacting plant and herbivore populations display the emergence of a new trophic level as an alternative to continued competition. These simulations reveal that new trophic levels may arise naturally from ecosystems because a robust strategy for a population in the presence of a strong competitor that could dominate or potentially extinguish them, is to predate upon the competitor. The same properties that make the competitor strong make it an ideal prey, suggesting the rubric that it is better to eat a strong competitor than to continue competing.",
    "title": "The emergence of new trophic levels in eco-evolutionary models with naturally-bounded traits.",
    "abstract": "Synergistic and antagonistic interactions in multi-species populations-such as resource sharing and competition-result in remarkably diverse behaviours in populations of interacting cells, such as in soil or human microbiomes, or clonal competition in cancer. The degree of inter- and intra-specific interaction can often be quantified through the notion of an ecological 'niche'. Typically, weakly interacting species that occupy largely distinct niches result in stable mixed populations, while strong interactions and competition for the same niche result in rapid extinctions of some species and fixations of others. We investigate the transition of a deterministically stable mixed population to a stochasticity-induced fixation as a function of the niche overlap between the two species. We also investigate the effect of the niche overlap on the population stability with respect to external invasions. Our results have important implications for a number of experimental systems.",
    "title": "Effects of niche overlap on coexistence, fixation and invasion in a population of two interacting species.",
    "abstract": "Dynamic food web models describe how species abundances change over time as a function of trophic and life-history parameters. They are essential to predicting the response of ecosystems to perturbations. However, they are notoriously difficult to parameterize, so that most models rely heavily either on allometric scaling of parameters or inverse estimation of biomass flows. The allometric approach makes species of comparable body mass have near-identical parameters which can generate extinctions within a trophic level. The biomass flow approach is more precise, but is restricted to steady-states, which is not appropriate for time-varying environments. Adequately parameterizing large food webs of temperate and arctic environments requires dealing both with many species of similar sizes and a strongly seasonal environment. Inspired by the rich empirical knowledge on the vertebrate food web of the Bia\u0142owie\u017ca forest, we parameterize a bipartite food web model comprising 21 predators and 124 prey species. Our model is a non-autonomous coupled ordinary differential equations system that allows for seasonality in life-history and predation parameters. Birth and death rates, seasonal descriptions of diet for each species, food requirements and biomass information are combined into a seasonal parameterization of a dynamic food web model. Food web seasonality is implemented with time-varying intrinsic growth rate and interaction parameters, while predation is modelled with both type I and type II functional responses. All our model variants allow for >80% persistence in spite of massive apparent competition, and a quantitative match to observed (seasonal) biomasses. We also identify trade-offs between maximizing persistence, reproducing observed biomasses, and ensuring model robustness to sampling errors. Although multi-annual cycles are expected with type II functional responses, they are here prevented by a strong predator self-regulation. We discuss these results and possible improvements on the model. We provide a general workflow to parameterize dynamic food web models in seasonal environments, based on a real case study. This may help to better predict how biodiverse food webs respond to changing environments.",
    "title": "From winter to summer and back: Lessons from the parameterization of a seasonal food web model for the Bia\u0142owie\u017ca forest.",
    "abstract": "In this study, the inhibitory capacity of Lactobacillus sakei strain L115 against Listeria monocytogenes has been assayed at 4, 8, 11, 15 and 20\u00a0\u00b0C in broth culture. Besides, the use of predictive microbiology models for describing growth of both microorganisms in monoculture and coculture has been proposed. A preliminary inhibitory test confirmed the ability of Lb. sakei strain L115 to prevent the growth of a five-strain cocktail of L. monocytogenes. Next, the growth of microorganisms in isolation, i.e. in monoculture, was monitored and kinetic parameters maximum specific growth rate (\u03bc",
    "title": "Evaluation of the effect of Lactobacillus sakei strain L115 on Listeria monocytogenes at different conditions of temperature by using predictive interaction models.",
    "abstract": "Microplastic particles are widely distributed in a variety of ecosystems and can be transferred to predators along a food chain after being ingested by prey. However, how microplastic particles affect prey and predator populations is not fully understood. In this study, using the Lotka-Volterra model, we theoretically investigated predator-prey population dynamics in terms of toxicological response intensity (strength to population growth rate) to microplastic particles, and\u00a0examined the negative effects on prey feeding ability and predator performance due to microplastic particles. Results of numerical simulations indicate the critical properties of the predator-prey system in response to microplastic particles: (i) predators are more vulnerable than prey under exposure to microplastic particles; (ii) the effect of microplastic particles on prey and predator population growths can be negligible when toxicological response intensities of prey and predator are small; (iii) this system is prey dependent for predator functional response, whose stability highly relies on the density of prey; (iv) the reduced feeding capacity of prey and predator induced by microplastic particles does not significantly affect the population dynamics of the predator-prey system. Moreover, our analysis suggests that dynamic\u00a0Lotka-Volterra models can play a vital role in predicting ecological impacts of microplastic particles on predator-prey population dynamics.",
    "title": "The Impact of Microplastic Particles on Population Dynamics of Predator and Prey: Implication of the Lotka-Volterra Model.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the existence of a two-dimensional invariant manifold that attracts all nonzero orbits in 3 species Lotka-Volterra systems with identical linear growth rates. This manifold, which we call the ",
    "title": "Balance simplices of 3-species May-Leonard systems.",
    "abstract": "Epidemics are highly unpredictable, and so are real-world population dynamics. In this paper, we examine a dynamical model of an ecosystem with one predator and two prey species of which one carries a disease. We find that the system behaves chaotically for a wide range of parameters. Using the allometric mass scaling of animal and disease lifetimes, we predict chaos if (a) the disease is infectious enough to persist, and (b) it affects the larger prey species. This provides another example of chaos in a Lotka-Volterra system and a possible explanation for the apparent randomness of epizootic outbreaks.",
    "title": "Chaos in disease outbreaks among prey.",
    "abstract": "Temperature is one of the fundamental environmental variables that determine the composition and function of microbial communities. However, a predictive understanding of how microbial communities respond to changes in temperature is lacking, partly because it is not obvious which aspects of microbial physiology determine whether a species could benefit from a change in the temperature. Here we incorporate how microbial growth rates change with temperature into a modified Lotka-Volterra competition model and predict that higher temperatures should-in general-favour the slower-growing species in a bacterial community. We experimentally confirm this prediction in pairwise cocultures assembled from a diverse set of species and show that these changes to pairwise outcomes with temperature are also predictive of changing outcomes in three-species communities, suggesting that our theory may be applicable to more-complex assemblages. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to predict how bacterial communities will shift with temperature knowing only the growth rates of the community members. These results provide a testable hypothesis for future studies of more-complex natural communities and we hope that this work will help to bridge the gap between ecological theory and the complex dynamics observed in metagenomic surveys.",
    "title": "Higher temperatures generically favour slower-growing bacterial species in multispecies communities.",
    "abstract": "Spontaneous formation of transverse patterns is ubiquitous in nonlinear dynamical systems of all kinds. An aspect of particular interest is the active control of such patterns. In nonlinear optical systems this can be used for all-optical switching with transistorlike performance, for example, realized with polaritons in a planar quantum-well semiconductor microcavity. Here we focus on a specific configuration which takes advantage of the intricate polarization dependencies in the interacting optically driven polariton system. Besides detailed numerical simulations of the coupled light-field exciton dynamics, in the present paper we focus on the derivation of a simplified population competition model giving detailed insight into the underlying mechanisms from a nonlinear dynamical systems perspective. We show that such a model takes the form of a generalized Lotka-Volterra system for two competing populations explicitly including a source term that enables external control. We present a comprehensive analysis of both the existence and stability of stationary states in the parameter space spanned by spatial anisotropy and external control strength. We also construct phase boundaries in nontrivial regions and characterize emerging bifurcations. The population competition model reproduces all key features of the switching observed in full numerical simulations of the rather complex semiconductor system and at the same time is simple enough for a fully analytical understanding.",
    "title": "Externally controlled Lotka-Volterra dynamics in a linearly polarized polariton fluid.",
    "abstract": "Whenever a dynamical process unfolds on static networks, the dynamical state of any focal individual will be exclusively influenced by directly connected neighbors, rather than by those unconnected ones, hence the arising of the dynamical correlation problem, where mean-field-based methods fail to capture the scenario. The dynamic correlation coupling problem has always been an important and difficult problem in the theoretical field of physics. The explicit analytical expressions and the decoupling methods often play a key role in the development of corresponding field. In this paper, we study the cyclic three-state dynamics on static networks, which include a wide class of dynamical processes, for example, the cyclic Lotka-Volterra model, the directed migration model, the susceptible-infected-recovered-susceptible epidemic model, and the predator-prey with empty sites model. We derive the explicit analytical solutions of the propagating size and the threshold curve surface for the four different dynamics. We compare the results on static networks with those on annealed networks and made an interesting discovery: for the symmetrical dynamical model (the cyclic Lotka-Volterra model and the directed migration model, where the three states are of rotational symmetry), the macroscopic behaviors of the dynamical processes on static networks are the same as those on annealed networks; while the outcomes of the dynamical processes on static networks are different with, and more complicated than, those on annealed networks for asymmetric dynamical model (the susceptible-infected-recovered-susceptible epidemic model and the predator-prey with empty sites model). We also compare the results forecasted by our theoretical method with those by Monte Carlo simulations and find good agreement between the results obtained by the two methods.",
    "title": "Analytical treatment for cyclic three-state dynamics on static networks.",
    "abstract": "We study mechanisms that can produce an increase of biomass production in batch processes when considering mixed cultures, compared to pure cultures. We show that growth thresholds or variable yields can produce 'overyielding', while this is not possible in the classical batch model with multiple species. We give sufficient conditions on the characteristics of the species to obtain overyielding, and illustrate these theoretical results with numerical simulations. This work provides new insights on species complementary in models of mixed cultures, without having to consider direct interactions terms between species as, for instance in the well known Generalized Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "title": "About biomass overyielding of mixed cultures in batch processes.",
    "abstract": "Coupled dynamical systems in ecology are known to respond to the seasonal forcing of their parameters with multiple dynamical behaviours, ranging from seasonal cycles to chaos. Seasonal forcing is predominantly modelled as a sine wave. However, the transition between seasons is often more sudden as illustrated by the effect of snow cover on predation success. A handful of studies have mentioned the robustness of their results to the shape of the forcing signal but did not report any detailed analyses. Therefore, whether and how the shape of seasonal forcing could affect the dynamics of coupled dynamical systems remains unclear, while abrupt seasonal transitions are widespread in ecological systems. To provide some answers, we conduct a numerical analysis of the dynamical response of predator-prey communities to the shape of the forcing signal by exploring the joint effect of two features of seasonal forcing: the magnitude of the signal, which is classically the only one studied, and the shape of the signal, abrupt or sinusoidal. We consider both linear and saturating functional responses, and focus on seasonal forcing of the predator's discovery rate, which fluctuates with changing environmental conditions and prey's ability to escape predation. Our numerical results highlight that a more abrupt seasonal forcing mostly alters the magnitude of population fluctuations and triggers period-doubling bifurcations, as well as the emergence of chaos, at lower forcing strength than for sine waves. Controlling the variance of the forcing signal mitigates this trend but does not fully suppress it, which suggests that the variance is not the only feature of the shape of seasonal forcing that acts on community dynamics. Although theoretical studies may predict correctly the sequence of bifurcations using sine waves as a representation of seasonality, there is a rationale for applied studies to implement as realistic seasonal forcing as possible to make precise predictions of community dynamics.",
    "title": "The effect of seasonal strength and abruptness on predator-prey dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Well-intentioned environmental management can backfire, causing unforeseen damage. To avoid this, managers and ecologists seek accurate predictions of the ecosystem-wide impacts of interventions, given small and imprecise datasets, which is an incredibly difficult task. We generated and analysed thousands of ecosystem population time series to investigate whether fitted models can aid decision-makers to select interventions. Using these time-series data (sparse and noisy datasets drawn from deterministic Lotka-Volterra systems with two to nine species, of known network structure), dynamic model forecasts of whether a species' future population will be positively or negatively affected by rapid eradication of another species were correct >\u00a070% of the time. Although 70% correct classifications is only slightly better than an uninformative prediction (50%), this classification accuracy can be feasibly improved by increasing monitoring accuracy and frequency. Our findings suggest that models may not need to produce well-constrained predictions before they can inform decisions that improve environmental outcomes.",
    "title": "Informing management decisions for ecological networks, using dynamic models calibrated to noisy time-series data.",
    "abstract": "When the asymptotic spreading for classical monostable Lotka-Volterra competition diffusion systems is concerned, extinction or persistence of the two competitive species is completely determined by the dynamics of the corresponding kinetic systems, while the size of initial values does not affect the final states. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the rich dynamics induced by the initial values in a class of degenerate competition diffusion systems with weak Allee effect. We present various extinction or persistence results by selecting different initial values although the corresponding kinetic system is fixed, which also implies the existence of balance between degenerate nonlinear reaction and diffusion. For example, even if the positive steady state of the corresponding kinetic system is globally asymptotically stable, we observe four different spreading-vanishing phenomena by selecting different initial values. In addition, the interspecific competition of one species may be harmful to the persistence of the other species by taking proper initial values. Our results show that the superior competitor in the sense of the corresponding kinetic system is not always unbeatable, it can be wiped out by the inferior competitor in the sense of the corresponding kinetic system depending on the size of initial habitats as well as the intensity of Allee effect.",
    "title": "The effect of initial values on extinction or persistence in degenerate diffusion competition systems.",
    "abstract": "This paper develops a method for studying bifurcations that occur in a neighborhood of the extinction equilibrium in nonlinear semelparous Leslie matrix models. The method uses a Lotka-Volterra equation with cyclic symmetry to detect the existence and to evaluate the stability of bifurcating equilibria and cycles. An application of the method provides sharp stability conditions for both a single-class cycle and a positive equilibrium bifurcating from the extinction equilibrium. The stability condition for a bifurcating single-class cycle confirms that the periodicity observed in periodical insects occurs if competition is more severe between than within age-classes. The developed method is also used to investigate two examples of nonlinear semelparous Leslie matrix models incorporating predator satiation. The investigation shows that a single-class cycle, which is associated with the periodicity in periodical insects, is a unique stable cycle in a neighborhood of the extinction equilibrium if the density effects in survival probabilities are identical among age-classes.",
    "title": "Bifurcations of cycles in nonlinear semelparous Leslie matrix models.",
    "abstract": "This paper concerns ecological invasion phenomenon of species based on the diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition model. We investigate the spreading speed (or the minimal wave speed of traveling waves) selection to the model and concentrate on the conjecture raised by Roques et al. (J Math Biol 71(2):465-489, 2015). By using an abstract implicit function theorem in a weighted functional space coupled with a perturbation technique, we not only prove this conjecture, but also show that the fast decay behavior of the first species is necessary and sufficient for the nonlinear speed selection of the whole system. This may lead to further significant results on the answer to the original Hosono's conjecture, a problem that has been outstanding for more than twenty years.",
    "title": "On the conjecture for the pushed wavefront to the diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition model.",
    "abstract": "In its simplest form, the competitive exclusion principle states that a number of species competing for a smaller number of resources cannot coexist. However, it has been observed empirically that in some settings it is possible to have coexistence. One example is Hutchinson's 'paradox of the plankton'. This is an instance where a large number of phytoplankton species coexist while competing for a very limited number of resources. Both experimental and theoretical studies have shown that temporal fluctuations of the environment can facilitate coexistence for competing species. Hutchinson conjectured that one can get coexistence because nonequilibrium conditions would make it possible for different species to be favored by the environment at different times. In this paper we show in various settings how a variable (stochastic) environment enables a set of competing species limited by a smaller number of resources or other density dependent factors to coexist. If the environmental fluctuations are modeled by white noise, and the per-capita growth rates of the competitors depend linearly on the resources, we prove that there is competitive exclusion. However, if either the dependence between the growth rates and the resources is not linear or the white noise term is nonlinear we show that coexistence on fewer resources than species is possible. Even more surprisingly, if the temporal environmental variation comes from switching the environment at random times between a finite number of possible states, it is possible for all species to coexist even if the growth rates depend linearly on the resources. We show in an example (a variant of which first appeared in Benaim and Lobry '16) that, contrary to Hutchinson's explanation, one can switch between two environments in which the same species is favored and still get coexistence.",
    "title": "The competitive exclusion principle in stochastic environments.",
    "abstract": "Accurate network models of species interaction could be used to predict population dynamics and be applied to manage real world ecosystems. Most relevant models are nonlinear, however, and data available from real world ecosystems are too noisy and sparsely sampled for common inference approaches. Here we improved the inference of generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) ecological networks by using a new optimization algorithm to constrain parameter signs with prior knowledge and a perturbation-based ensemble method.\nWe applied the new inference to long-term species abundance data from the freshwater fish community in the Illinois River, United States. We constructed an ensemble of 668\u00a0gLV models that explained 79% of the data on average. The models indicated (at a 70% level of confidence) a strong positive interaction from emerald shiner (Notropis atherinoides) to channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus), which we could validate using data from a nearby observation site, and predicted that the relative abundances of most fish species will continue to fluctuate temporally and concordantly in the near future. The network shows that the invasive silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix) has much stronger impacts on native predators than on prey, supporting the notion that the invader perturbs the native food chain by replacing the diets of predators.\nEnsemble approaches constrained by prior knowledge can improve inference and produce networks from noisy and sparsely sampled time series data to fill knowledge gaps on real world ecosystems. Such network models could aid efforts to conserve ecosystems such as the Illinois River, which is threatened by the invasion of the silver carp.",
    "title": "Enhanced inference of ecological networks by parameterizing ensembles of population dynamics models constrained with prior knowledge.",
    "abstract": "Rock-paper-scissors games metaphorically model cyclic dominance in ecology and microbiology. In a static environment, these models are characterized by fixation probabilities obeying two different \"laws\" in large and small well-mixed populations. Here, we investigate the evolution of these three-species models subject to a randomly switching carrying capacity modeling the endless change between states of resources scarcity and abundance. Focusing mainly on the zero-sum rock-paper-scissors game, equivalent to the cyclic Lotka-Volterra model, we study how the coupling of demographic and environmental noise influences the fixation properties. More specifically, we investigate which species is the most likely to prevail in a population of fluctuating size and how the outcome depends on the environmental variability. We show that demographic noise coupled with environmental randomness \"levels the field\" of cyclic competition by balancing the effect of selection. In particular, we show that fast switching effectively reduces the selection intensity proportionally to the variance of the carrying capacity. We determine the conditions under which new fixation scenarios arise, where the most likely species to prevail changes with the rate of switching and the variance of the carrying capacity. Random switching has a limited effect on the mean fixation time that scales linearly with the average population size. Hence, environmental randomness makes the cyclic competition more egalitarian, but does not prolong the species coexistence. We also show how the fixation probabilities of close-to-zero-sum rock-paper-scissors games can be obtained from those of the zero-sum model by rescaling the selection intensity.",
    "title": "Fixation properties of rock-paper-scissors games in fluctuating populations.",
    "abstract": "This paper proposes a three-step process, based on the definition of absolute decoupling (AbsDec), to analyze the role of nuclear energy in the absolute decoupling between environmental pressures (including Energy resource use and CO",
    "title": "Decoupling of environmental pressure and economic growth: evidence from high-income and nuclear-dependent countries.",
    "abstract": "Nano zero-valent iron (nZVI) is one of the most paramount nanoparticles (NPs) applied in environmental remediation, leading to great concerns for the potential impacts on soil ecosystem health. The objective of this study was to link toxicokinetics and consumer-resource dynamics in the Caenorhabditis elegans-Escherichia coli (worm-bacteria) ecosystem. The biokinetic parameters of bacteria and worms were obtained from toxicokinetic experiments and related published literature. Biomass dynamics of bacteria and worms were estimated by employing the modified Lotka-Volterra model. Dynamics of bacteria and worm biomass, internal concentrations of nZVI, bioconcentration factors (BCFs), and biomagnification factors (BMFs) were simulated based on the consumer-resource dynamics. Results showed that the biomass of worms steadily increased from 22.25 to 291.49 g L",
    "title": "Impact of consumer-resource dynamics on C. elegans-E. coli system exposed to nano zero-valent iron (nZVI).",
    "abstract": "Protracted conflict is one of the largest human challenges that have persistently undermined economic and social progress. In recent years, there has been increased emphasis on using statistical and physical science models to better understand both the universal patterns and the underlying mechanics of conflict. Whilst macroscopic power-law fractal patterns have been shown for death-toll in wars and self-excitation models have been shown for roadside ambush attacks, very few works deal with the challenge of complex dynamics between gangs at the intra-city scale. Here, based on contributions to the historical memory of the conflict in Colombia, Medellin's gang-confrontation-network is presented. It is shown that socio-economic and violence indexes are moderate to highly correlated to the structure of the network. Specifically, the death-toll of conflict is strongly influenced by the leading eigenvalues of the gangs' conflict adjacency matrix, which serves a proxy for unstable self-excitation from revenge attacks. The distribution of links based on the geographic distance between gangs in confrontation leads to the confirmation that territorial control is a main catalyst of violence and retaliation among gangs. As a first attempt to explore the time evolution of the confrontation network, the Boltzmann-Lotka-Volterra (BLV) dynamic interaction network analysis is applied to quantify the spatial embeddedness of the dynamic relationship between conflicting gangs in Medellin. However, the non-stationary character of the violence in Medellin during the observation period restricts the application of the BLV model and results suggest that more involved and comprehensive models are needed to described the dynamics of Medellin's armed conflict.",
    "title": "Gang confrontation: The case of Medellin (Colombia).",
    "abstract": "In lakes, suspended inorganic particles and dissolved substance are able to absorb or scatter different light wavelengths, leading to the changes of underwater light spectra which are highly related to the water quality. In turn, such changes could form environmental filtering for phytoplankton community to select particular algal populations via intensive competition for light resources. As an example, eutrophic lakes where underwater light spectra changed dramatically have a result of cyanobacterial blooms. In this study, in order to test the effect of light spectrum on growth and competition of green algae and cyanobacteria, Chlorella pyrenoidosa (a common green alga) and Microcystis aeruginosa (a bloom-forming cyanobacterium) grew and competed under three light colors: white (400-700\u00a0nm), red (620-700\u00a0nm), and blue (410-490\u00a0nm) light. Mono- and co-cultured systems were designed and population dynamics of the two species were monitored. The Lotka-Volterra model was used to quantify interspecific competition. Moreover, their photosynthetic activities were measured in mono-cultures. Results showed that in mono-cultures, red light was more favorable for M. aeruginosa, while blue light promoted the growth of C. pyrenoidosa. In co-cultures, M. aeruginosa won in red light and white light, while C. pyrenoidosa dominated under blue light. Light color mainly affected the absorption flux of reaction center (ABS/RC) in photosynthetic system II (PSII) and its potential photosynthetic capacity (F",
    "title": "Effects of light color on interspecific competition between Microcystis aeruginosa and Chlorella pyrenoidosa in batch experiment.",
    "abstract": "Pirate phages use the structural proteins encoded by unrelated helper phages to propagate. The best-studied example is the pirate P4 and helper P2 of coliphages, and it has been known that the Staphylococcus aureus pathogenicity islands (SaPIs) that can encode virulence factors act as pirate phages, too. When alone in the host, the pirate phages act as a prophage, but when the helper phage gene is also in the same host cell, the pirate phage has ability to exploit the helper phages structural proteins to produce pirate phage particles and spread, interfering with the helper phage production. The known helper phages in these systems are temperate phages. Interestingly, the interference of the pirate phage to the helper phage occurs in a different manner between the SaPI-helper system and the P4-P2 system. SaPIs cannot lyse a helper lysogen upon infection, while when a helper phage lyse a SaPI lysogen, most of the phage particles produced are the SaPI particles. On the contrary, in the P4-P2 system, a pirate phage P4 can lyse a helper P2 lysogen to produce mostly the P4 particles, while when P2 phage lyses a P4 lysogen, most of the produced phages are the P2 particles. Here, the consequences of these different strategies in the pirate and helper phage spreading among uninfected host is analyzed by using mathematical models. It is found that SaPI's strategy interferes with the helper phage spreading significantly more than the P4's strategy, because SaPI interferes with the helper phage's main reproduction step, while P4 interferes only by forcing the helper lysogens to lyse. However, the interference is found to be weaker in the spatially structured environment than in the well-mixed environment. This is because, in the spatial setting, the system tends to self-organize so that the helper phages take over the front of propagation due to the need of helper phage for the pirate phage spreading.",
    "title": "How pirate phage interferes with helper phage: Comparison of the two distinct strategies.",
    "abstract": "We revisit the problem of the predominance of the \"weakest\" species in the context of Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard formulations of a spatial stochastic rock-paper-scissors model in which one of the species has its predation probability reduced by 0<P_{w}<1. We show that, despite the different population dynamics and spatial patterns, these two formulations lead to qualitatively similar results for the late time values of the relative abundances of the three species (as a function of P_{w}), as long as the simulation lattices are sufficiently large for coexistence to prevail-the \"weakest\" species generally having an advantage over the others (specially over its predator). However, for smaller simulation lattices, we find that the relatively large oscillations at the initial stages of simulations with random initial conditions may result in a significant dependence of the probability of species survival on the lattice size.",
    "title": "Predominance of the weakest species in Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard formulations of the rock-paper-scissors model.",
    "abstract": "Internet of Things (IoT) is the paradigm that has largely contributed to the development of smart buildings in our society. This technology makes it possible to monitor all aspects of the smart building and to improve its operation. One of the main challenges encountered by IoT networks is that the the data they collect may be unreliable since IoT devices can lose accuracy for several reasons (sensor wear, sensor aging, poorly constructed buildings, etc.). The aim of our work is to study the evolution of IoT networks over time in smart buildings. The hypothesis we have tested is that, by amplifying the Lotka-Volterra equations as a community of living organisms (an ecosystem model), the reliability of the system and its components can be predicted. This model comprises a set of differential equations that describe the relationship between an IoT network and multiple IoT devices. Based on the Lotka-Volterra model, in this article, we propose a model in which the predators are the non-precision IoT devices and the prey are the precision IoT devices. Furthermore, a third species is introduced, the maintenance staff, which will impact the interaction between both species, helping the prey to survive within the ecosystem. This is the first Lotka-Volterra model that is applied in the field of IoT. Our work establishes a proof of concept in the field and opens a wide spectrum of applications for biology models to be applied in IoT.",
    "title": "Smart Buildings IoT Networks Accuracy Evolution Prediction to Improve Their Reliability Using a Lotka-Volterra Ecosystem Model.",
    "abstract": "Studies in ecological stoichiometry highlight that grazer dynamics are affected by insufficient food nutrient content (low phosphorus (P)/carbon (C) ratio) as well as excess food nutrient content (high P:C). Contaminant stressors affect all levels of the biological hierarchy, from cells to organs to organisms to populations to entire ecosystems. Eco-toxicological modeling under the framework of ecological stoichiometry predicts the risk of bio-accumulation of a toxicant under stoichiometric constraints. In this paper, we developed and analyzed a Lotka-Volterra type predator- prey model which explicitly tracks the environmental toxicant as well as the toxicant in the populations under stoichiometric constraints. Analytic, numerical, slow-fast steady state and bifurcation theory are employed to predict the risk of toxicant bio-accumulation under varying food conditions. In some cases, our model predicts different population dynamics, including wide amplitude limit cycles where producer densities exhibit very low values and may be in danger of stochastic extinction.",
    "title": "Mechanistically derived Toxicant-mediated predator-prey model under Stoichiometric constraints.",
    "abstract": "The geographic niches of many species are dramatically changing as a result of environmental and anthropogenic impacts such as global climate change and the introduction of invasive species. In particular, genetically compatible subspecies that were once geographically separated are being reintroduced to one another. This is of concern for conservation, where rare or threatened subspecies could be bred out by hybridising with their more common relatives, and for commercial interests, where the stock or quality of desirable harvested species could be compromised. It is also relevant to disease ecology, where disease transmission is heterogeneous among subspecies and hybridisation may affect the rate and spatial spread of disease. We develop and investigate a mathematical model to combine competitive effects via the Lotka-Volterra model with hybridisation effects via mate choice. The species complex is structured into two classes: a subspecies of interest (named x), and other subspecies including any hybrids produced (named y). We show that in the absence of limit cycles the model has four possible equilibrium outcomes, representing every combination: total extinction, x-dominance (y extinct), y-dominance (x extinct), and at most a single coexistence equilibrium. We give conditions for which limit cycles cannot exist, then further show that the \"total extinction\" equilibrium is always unstable, that y-dominance is always stable, and that the other equilibria have stability depending on the model parameters. We demonstrate that both x-dominance and coexistence are achievable under a wide range of parameter values and initial conditions, which corresponds with empirical evidence of known competing-hybridising systems. We then briefly examine bifurcation behaviour. In particular, we note that a subcritical bifurcation is possible in which a \"catastrophic\" transition from x-dominance to y-dominance can occur, representing an invasion event. Finally, we briefly examine the common complication of time-varying carrying capacity, showing that such a case can make coexistence more likely.",
    "title": "Modelling competition between hybridising subspecies.",
    "abstract": "Understanding how network architectures are related to community robustness is essential to investigating the effects of disturbances on biological systems. Regarding the perturbations that are observed in disturbance regimes, frequency and intensity are two main descriptors, specifically for those events with short duration. Here, I used the architecture of 45 real-world weighted bipartite networks to assess whether network size, connectance, and nestedness are related to the effects of pulse disturbances in antagonistic communities. Networks were simulated under five scenarios with different combinations of frequency and intensity of perturbations. The dynamics of resource-consumer interactions followed the adaptive interaction switching behavior, which is the key topological process underlying most of the architectures of antagonistic webs. As opposed to most studies considering the effects of disturbances as species extinctions explicitly, the effects of disturbances here were modeled as changes in the abundance of consumers following immediate reductions in the abundance of resources. Simulations revealed that community robustness to pulse disturbances increased with both connectance and nestedness overall, with no effect of network size. Community networks with highly connected and nested topologies were more robust to disturbances, particularly under high frequency and intensity perturbations. By considering disturbances that are not directly related to species' extinctions, this study provides valuable insights that connectance and nestedness have an important stabilizing role in ecological networks.",
    "title": "Connectance and nestedness as stabilizing factors in response to pulse disturbances in adaptive antagonistic networks.",
    "abstract": "The notion of template has been advocated by Paul Humphreys and others as an illuminating unit of analysis in the philosophy of scientific modelling. Templates are supposed to have the dual functions of representing target systems and of facilitating quantitative manipulation. A resulting worry is that wide-ranging cross-disciplinary use of templates might compromise their representational function and reduce them to mere formalisms. In this paper, we argue that templates are valuable units of analysis in reconstructing cross-disciplinary modelling. Central to our discussion are the ways in which Lotka-Volterra models are used to analyse processes of technology diffusion. We illuminate both the similarities and differences between contributions to this case of cross-disciplinary modelling by reconstructing them as transfer of a template, without reducing the template to a mere formalism or a computational model. This requires differentiating the interpretation of templates from that of the models based on them. This differentiation allows us to claim that the LV models of technology diffusion that we review are the result of template transfer - conformist in some contributions, creative in others.",
    "title": "Transfer and templates in scientific modelling.",
    "abstract": "Thomas Kuhn suggested that symbolic generalizations are applied to concrete systems by a process involving exemplars and analogical reasoning. Using the related concepts of theoretical and formal templates, I argue that the process of applying templates can in some cases be made explicit and that we do not need to rely on similarity relations and tacit knowledge. In so doing I show how some formal models can be transferred from one scientific field to another. Examples include scale-free networks, the Lotka-Volterra model from biology, and the Goodwin model in economics. I also argue that this explicit approach has advantages over the more psychologically oriented approach of Kuhn and explain the sense in which templates do and do not produce unification.",
    "title": "Knowledge transfer across scientific disciplines.",
    "abstract": "Does a high dispersal rate provide a competitive advantage when risking competitive exclusion? To this day, the theoretical literature cannot answer this question in full generality. The present paper focuses on the simplest mathematical model with two populations differing only in dispersal ability and whose one-dimensional territories are spatially segregated. Although the motion of the border between the two territories remains elusive in general, all cases investigated in the literature concur: either the border does not move at all because of some environmental heterogeneity or the fast diffuser chases the slow diffuser. Counterintuitively, it is better to randomly explore the hostile enemy territory, even if it means highly probable death of some individuals, than to \"stay united\". This directly contradicts a celebrated result on the intermediate competition case, emphasizing the importance of the competition intensity. Overall, the larger picture remains unclear and the optimal strategy regarding dispersal remains ambiguous. Several open problems worthy of a special attention are raised.",
    "title": "The effect of random dispersal on competitive exclusion - A review.",
    "abstract": "Micro-cyanobacteria and pico-cyanobacteria coexist in many lakes throughout the world. Their distinct cell sizes and nutrient utilization strategies may lead to dominance of one over the other at varying nutrient levels. In this study, Microcystis aeruginosa and Synechococcus sp. were chosen as representative organisms of micro- and pico-cyanobacteria, respectively. A series of nitrate and ammonia conditions (0.02, 0.1, 0.5, and 2.5\u2009mg\u2009N L",
    "title": "Effects of nitrogen on interspecific competition between two cell-size cyanobacteria: Microcystis aeruginosa and Synechococcus sp.",
    "abstract": "Carbon cycling models consider soil carbon sequestration a key process for climate change mitigation. However, these models mostly focus on abiotic soil processes and, despite its recognized critical mechanistic role, do not explicitly include interacting soil organisms. Here, we use a literature study to show that even a relatively simple soil community (heathland soils) contains large uncertainties in temporal and spatial food web structure. Next, we used a Lotka-Volterra-based food web model to demonstrate that, due to these uncertainties, climate change can either increase or decrease soil carbon sequestration to varying extents. Both the strength and direction of changes strongly depend on (1) the main consumer's (enchytraeid worms) feeding preferences and (2) whether decomposers (fungi) or enchytraeid worms are more sensitive to stress. Hence, even for a soil community with a few dominant functional groups and a simulation model with a few parameters, filling these knowledge gaps is a critical first step towards the explicit integration of soil food web dynamics into carbon cycling models in order to better assess the role soils play in climate change mitigation.",
    "title": "Food Web Uncertainties Influence Predictions of Climate Change Effects on Soil Carbon Sequestration in Heathlands.",
    "abstract": "The demand for phenolic compounds has been increasing rapidly, which has intensified the production and usage of phenol at a commercial scale. In some polluted water bodies, phenol has become one of the typical aromatic contaminants. Such water bodies are inescapably influenced by nutrients from human activities, and also suffer from nuisance cyanobacterial blooms. While phenolic pollution threatens water safety and ecological balance, algal cells are ubiquitous and sensitive to pollutants. Therefore, effects of phenolic pollution on interspecific competition between a bloom-forming cyanobacterium and other common alga merit quantitative investigation. In this study, the effects of phenol on ",
    "title": "Effects of Phenolic Pollution on Interspecific Competition between ",
    "abstract": "We argue that predator-prey dynamics, a cornerstone of ecology, can be driven by insufficiently explored aspects of predator performance that are inherently prey dependent: that is, these have been falsely excluded. Classical (Lotka-Volterra-based) models tend to consider only prey-dependent ingestion rate. We highlight three other prey-dependent responses and provide empirically derived functions to describe them. These functions introduce neglected nonlinearities and threshold behaviors into dynamic models, leading to unexpected outcomes: specifically, as prey abundance increases predators (1) become less efficient at using prey; (2) initially allocate resources toward survival and then allocate resources toward reproduction; and (3) are less likely to die. Based on experiments using model zooplankton, we explore the consequences of including these functions in the classical structure and show that they alter qualitative and quantitative dynamics of an empirically informed generic predator-prey model. Through bifurcation analysis, our revised structure predicts (1) predator extinctions, where the classical structure allows persistence; (2) predator survival, where the classical structure drives predators toward extinction; and (3) greater stability through smaller amplitude of cycles, relative to the classical structure. Then, by exploring parameter space, we show how these responses alter predictions of predator-prey stability and competition between predators. In light of our results, we suggest that classical assumptions about predator responses to prey abundance should be reevaluated.",
    "title": "False Exclusion: A Case to Embed Predator Performance in Classical Population Models.",
    "abstract": "Bet-hedging-a strategy that reduces fitness variance at the expense of lower mean fitness among different generations-is thought to evolve as a biological adaptation to environmental unpredictability. Despite widespread use of the bet-hedging concept, most theoretical treatments have largely made unrealistic demographic assumptions, such as non-overlapping generations and fixed or infinite population sizes. Here, we extend the concept to consider overlapping generations by defining bet-hedging as a strategy with lower variance and mean per capita growth rate across different environments. We also define an opposing strategy-the rising-tide-that has higher mean but also higher variance in per capita growth. These alternative strategies lie along a continuum of biological adaptions to environmental fluctuation. Using stochastic Lotka-Volterra models to explore the evolution of the rising-tide versus bet-hedging strategies, we show that both the mean environmental conditions and the temporal scales of their fluctuations, as well as whether population dynamics are discrete or continuous, are crucial in shaping the type of strategy that evolves in fluctuating environments. Our model demonstrates that there are likely to be a wide range of ways that organisms with overlapping generations respond to environmental unpredictability beyond the classic bet-hedging concept.",
    "title": "A continuum of biological adaptations to environmental fluctuation.",
    "abstract": "Understanding how stochastic fluctuations in the environment influence population dynamics is crucial for sustainable management of biological diversity. However, because species do not live in isolation, this requires knowledge of how species interactions influence population dynamics. In addition, spatial processes play an important role in shaping population dynamics. It is therefore important to improve our understanding of how these different factors act together to shape patterns of abundance across space within and among species. Here, we present a new analytical model for understanding patterns of covariation in space between interacting species in a stochastic environment. We show that the correlation between two species in how they experience the same environmental conditions determines how correlated fluctuations in their densities would be in the absence of competition. In other words, without competition, synchrony between the species is driven by the environment, similar to the Moran effect within a species. Competition between the two species causes their abundances to become less positively or more negatively correlated. The same strength of competition has a greater negative effect on the correlation between species when one of them has a more variable growth rate than the other. In addition, dispersal or other movement weakens the effect of competition on the interspecific correlation. Finally, we show that movement increases the distance over which the species are (positively or negatively) correlated, an effect that is stronger when the species are competitors, and that there is a close connection between the spatial scaling of population synchrony within a species and between species. Our results show that the relationships between the different factors influencing interspecific correlations in abundance are not simple linear ones, but this model allows us to disentangle them and predict how they will affect population fluctuations in different situations.",
    "title": "Spatial covariation of competing species in a fluctuating environment.",
    "abstract": "The connection between structure and stability of ecological networks has been widely studied in the last fifty years. A challenge that scientists continue to face is that in-depth mathematical model analysis is often difficult, unless the considered systems are specifically constrained. This makes it challenging to generalize results. Therefore, methods are needed that relax the required restrictions. Here, we introduce a novel heuristic approach that provides persistence estimates for random systems without limiting the admissible parameter range and system behaviour. We apply our approach to study persistence of species in random generalized Lotka-Volterra systems and present simulation results, which confirm the accuracy of our predictions. Our results suggest that persistence is mainly driven by the linkage density, whereby additional links can both favour and hinder persistence. In particular, we observed \"persistence bistability\", a rarely studied feature of random networks, leading to a dependency of persistence on initial species densities. Networks with this property exhibit tipping points, in which species loss can lead to a cascade of extinctions. The methods developed in this paper may facilitate the study of more general models and thereby provide a step forward towards a unifying framework of network architecture and stability.",
    "title": "An Approach to Study Species Persistence in Unconstrained Random Networks.",
    "abstract": "Overpopulation and environmental degradation due to inadequate resource-use are outcomes of human's ecosystem engineering that has profoundly modified the world's landscape. Despite the age-old concern that unchecked population and economic growth may be unsustainable, the prospect of societal collapse remains contentious today. Contrasting with the usual approach to modeling human-nature interactions, which are based on the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with humans as the predators and nature as the prey, here we address this issue using a discrete-time population dynamics model of ecosystem engineers. The growth of the population of engineers is modeled by the Beverton-Holt equation with a density-dependent carrying capacity that is proportional to the number of usable habitats. These habitats (e.g., farms) are the products of the work of the individuals on the virgin habitats (e.g., native forests), hence the denomination engineers of ecosystems to those agents. The human-made habitats decay into degraded habitats, which eventually regenerate into virgin habitats. For slow regeneration resources, we find that the dynamics is dominated by rounds of prosperity and collapse, in which the population reaches vanishing small densities. However, increase of the efficiency of the engineers to explore the resources eliminates the dangerous oscillatory patterns of feast and famine and leads to a stable equilibrium that balances population growth and resource availability. This finding supports the viewpoint of growth optimists that technological progress may avoid collapse.",
    "title": "Influence of technological progress and renewability on the sustainability of ecosystem engineers populations.",
    "abstract": "Ecological resilience refers to the ability of a system to retain its state when subject to state variables perturbations or parameter changes. While understanding and quantifying resilience is crucial to anticipate the possible regime shifts, characterizing the influence of the system parameters on resilience is the first step toward controlling the system to avoid undesirable critical transitions. In this paper, we apply tools of qualitative theory of differential equations to study the resilience of competing populations as modeled by the classical Lotka-Volterra system. Within the high interspecific competition regime, such model exhibits bistability, and the boundary between the basins of attraction corresponding to exclusive survival of each population is the stable manifold of a saddle point. Studying such manifold and its behavior in terms of the model parameters, we characterized the populations resilience: While increasing competitiveness leads to higher resilience, it is not always the case with respect to reproduction. Within a pioneering context where both populations initiate with few individuals, increasing reproduction of one population leads to an increase in its resilience; however, within an environment previously dominated by one population and then invaded by the other, an increase in the resilience of a population is obtained by decreasing its reproduction rate. Besides providing interesting insights for the dynamics of competing populations, this work brings near to each other the concepts of ecological resilience and the methods of differential equations and stimulates the development and application of new tools for ecological resilience.",
    "title": "Resilience Analysis for Competing Populations.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of microbial communities is driven by a range of interactions from symbiosis to predator-prey relationships, the majority of which are poorly understood. With the increasing availability of high-throughput microbiome taxonomic profiling data, it is now conceivable to directly learn the ecological models that explicitly define microbial interactions and explain community dynamics. The applicability of these approaches is severely limited by the lack of accurate absolute cell density measurements (biomass).\nWe present a new computational approach that resolves this key limitation in the inference of generalized Lotka-Volterra models (gLVMs) by coupling biomass estimation and model inference with an expectation-maximization algorithm (BEEM).\nBEEM outperforms the state-of-the-art methods for inferring gLVMs, while simultaneously eliminating the need for additional experimental biomass data as input. BEEM's application to previously inaccessible public datasets (due to the lack of biomass data) allowed us to construct ecological models of microbial communities in the human gut on a per-individual basis, revealing personalized dynamics and keystone species.\nBEEM addresses a key bottleneck in \"systems analysis\" of microbiomes by enabling accurate inference of ecological models from high throughput sequencing data without the need for experimental biomass measurements.",
    "title": "An expectation-maximization algorithm enables accurate ecological modeling using longitudinal microbiome sequencing data.",
    "abstract": "In this article, in order to understand the appearance of oscillations observed in protein aggregation experiments, we propose, motivate and analyse mathematically the differential system describing the kinetics of the following reactions: [Formula: see text] with n finite or infinite. This system may be viewed as a variant of the seminal Becker-D\u00f6ring system, and is capable of displaying sustained though damped oscillations.",
    "title": "A bi-monomeric, nonlinear Becker-D\u00f6ring-type system to capture oscillatory aggregation kinetics in prion dynamics.",
    "abstract": "In order to achieve a sustainable development of economy and ecological environment, starting from the systemic thinking and systemic approach, this paper regards China's economic development and ecological environment protection as a whole system. Firstly, the negative index of M2 is introduced to correct the GDP bubble, and constructed the architecture model of the economy-ecological environment system. Then, this research establishes an evaluation index system using the analytic hierarchy process and Yaahp software and obtains its comprehensive evaluation value. After that, this research builds the Lotka-Volterra coordination degree model and uses the China data from 1997-2016 to analyze the mutual influencing factors and coupling coordination degree, and carries out the empirical and experimental tests to obtain the overall coordination relationship between economy and ecological environment systems. The results of the study show that the trend of economy-ecological environment coordination degree in China has changed from relatively coordinated to moderately uncoordinated in the latter 20 years; the coordination degree decreased from 0.8996 to 0.4842. Although, the situation has a rebound in the latter 2 years,\u00a0the situation is still not optimistic. In addition, even the modified model of economic subsystem plus M2 did not change the original changing trend, and only changed the magnitude of the gap, thus revealing that the imbalance of economic development is much more serious than the impact of overissue currency on the ecological environment. This study provides a new basis for research decisions such as the adjustment of the economic growth rate and the optimization of ecological environment.",
    "title": "Systematic analysis of the coordination degree of China's economy-ecological environment system and its influencing factor.",
    "abstract": "We analyze the collective dynamics of hierarchically structured networks of densely connected spiking neurons. These networks of sub-networks may represent interactions between cell assemblies or different nuclei in the brain. The dynamical activity pattern that results from these interactions depends on the strength of synaptic coupling between them. Importantly, the overall dynamics of a brain region in the absence of external input, so called ongoing brain activity, has been attributed to the dynamics of such interactions. In our study, two different network scenarios are considered: a system with one inhibitory and two excitatory subnetworks, and a network representation with three inhibitory subnetworks. To study the effect of synaptic strength on the global dynamics of the network, two parameters for relative couplings between these subnetworks are considered. For each case, a bifurcation analysis is performed and the results have been compared to large-scale network simulations. Our analysis shows that Generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) equations, well-known in predator-prey studies, yield a meaningful population-level description for the collective behavior of spiking neuronal interaction, which have a hierarchical structure. In particular, we observed a striking equivalence between the bifurcation diagrams of spiking neuronal networks and their corresponding GLV equations. This study gives new insight on the behavior of neuronal assemblies, and can potentially suggest new mechanisms for altering the dynamical patterns of spiking networks based on changing the synaptic strength between some groups of neurons.",
    "title": "Bifurcation analysis of the dynamics of interacting subnetworks of a spiking network.",
    "abstract": "Intraspecific variation is at the core of evolutionary theory, and yet, from an ecological perspective, we have few robust expectations for how this variation should affect the dynamics of large communities. Here, by adapting an approach from evolutionary game theory, we show that the incorporation of phenotypic variability into competitive networks dramatically alters the dynamics across ecological timescales, stabilising the systems and buffering the communities against demographic perturbations. The beneficial effects of phenotypic variability are strongest when there are substantial differences among phenotypes and when phenotypes are inherited with moderately high fidelity; yet even low levels of variation lead to significant increases in diversity, stability, and robustness. By identifying a simple and ubiquitous stabilising force\u00a0in competitive communities, this work contributes to our core understanding of how biological diversity is maintained in natural systems.",
    "title": "Phenotypic variability promotes diversity and stability in competitive communities.",
    "abstract": "The Fractional Gray Lotka-Volterra Model (FGLVM) is introduced and used for modeling the transaction counts of three cryptocurrencies, namely, Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ripple. The 2-dimensional study is on Bitcoin and Litecoin, while the 3-dimensional study is on Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ripple. Dataset from 28 April 2013 to 10 February 2018 provides forecasting values for Bitcoin and Litecoin through the 2-dimensional FGLVM study, while dataset from 7 August 2013 to 10 February 2018 provides forecasting values of Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ripple through the 3-dimensional FGLVM study. Forecasting values of cryptocurrencies for the n-dimensional FGLVM study, n={2,3} along 100 days of study time, are displayed. The graph and Lyapunov exponents of the 2-dimensional Lotka-Volterra system using the results of FGLVM reveal that the system is a chaotic dynamical system, while the 3-dimensional Lotka-Volterra system displays parabolic patterns in spite of the chaos indicated by the Lyapunov exponents. The mean absolute percentage error indicates that 2-dimensional FGLVM has a good accuracy for the overall forecasting values of Bitcoin and a reasonable accuracy for the last 300 forecasting values of Litecoin, while the 3-dimensional FGLVM has a good accuracy for the overall forecasting values of Bitcoin and a reasonable accuracy for the last 300 forecasting values of both Litecoin and Ripple. Both 2- and 3-dimensional FGLVM analyses evoke a future constant trend in transacting Bitcoin and a future decreasing trend in transacting Litecoin and Ripple. Bitcoin will keep relatively higher transaction counts, with Litecoin transaction counts everywhere superior to that of Ripple.",
    "title": "Fractional gray Lotka-Volterra models with application to cryptocurrencies adoption.",
    "abstract": "Vector ecology is integral to understanding the transmission of vector-borne diseases, with processes such as reproduction and competition pivotal in determining vector presence and abundance. The arbovirus vectors Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus compete as larvae, but this mechanism is insufficient to explain patterns of coexistence and exclusion. Inviable interspecies matings-known as reproductive interference-is another candidate mechanism. Here, we analyse mathematical models of mosquito population dynamics and epidemiology which include two Aedes-specific features of reproductive interference. First, as these mosquitoes use hosts to find mates, reproductive interference will only occur if the same host is visited. Host choice will, in turn, be determined by behavioural responses to host availability. Second, females can become sterilized after mis-mating with heterospecifics. We find that a species with an affinity for a shared host will suffer more from reproductive interference than a less selective competitor. Costs from reproductive interference can be 'traded-off' against costs from larval competition, leading to competitive outcomes that are difficult to predict from empirical evidence. Sterilizations of a self-limiting species can counterintuitively lead to higher densities than a competitor suffering less sterilization. We identify that behavioural responses and reproductive interference mediate a concomitant relationship between vector ecological dynamics and epidemiology. Competitors with opposite behavioural responses can maintain disease where human hosts are rare, due to vector coexistence facilitated by a reduced cost from reproductive interference. Our work elucidates the relative roles of the competitive mechanisms governing Aedes populations and the associated epidemiological consequences.",
    "title": "The ecological and epidemiological consequences of reproductive interference between the vectors Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus.",
    "abstract": "We consider an asexually reproducing population on a finite type space whose evolution is driven by exponential birth, death and competition rates, as well as the possibility of mutation at a birth event. On the individual-based level this population can be modelled as a measure-valued Markov process. Multiple variations of this system have been studied in the simultaneous limit of large populations and rare mutations, where the regime is chosen such that mutations are separated. We consider the deterministic system, resulting from the large population limit, and then let the mutation probability tend to zero. This corresponds to a much higher frequency of mutations, where multiple microscopic types are present at the same time. The limiting process resembles an adaptive walk or flight and jumps between different equilibria of coexisting types. The graph structure on the type space, determined by the possibilities to mutate, plays an important role in defining this jump process. In a variation of the above model, where the radius in which mutants can be spread is limited, we study the possibility of crossing valleys in the fitness landscape and derive different kinds of limiting walks.",
    "title": "From adaptive dynamics to adaptive walks.",
    "abstract": "Many bacterial species produce toxins that inhibit their competitors. We model this phenomenon by extending classic two-species Lotka-Volterra competition in one spatial dimension to incorporate toxin production by one species. Considering solutions comprising two adjacent single-species colonies, we show how the toxin inhibits the susceptible species near the interface between the two colonies. Moreover, a sufficiently effective toxin inhibits the susceptible species to such a degree that an 'inhibition zone' is formed separating the two colonies. In the special case of truly non-motile bacteria, i.e. with zero bacterial diffusivity, we derive analytical expressions describing the bacterial distributions and size of the inhibition zone. In the more general case of weakly motile bacteria, i.e. small bacterial diffusivity, these two-colony solutions become travelling waves. We employ numerical methods to show that the wavespeed is dependent upon both interspecific competition and toxin strength; precisely which colony expands at the expense of the other depends upon the choice of parameter values. In particular, a sufficiently effective toxin allows the producer to expand at the expense of the susceptible, with a wavespeed magnitude that is bounded above as the toxin strength increases. This asymptotic wavespeed is independent of interspecific competition and due to the formation of the inhibition zone; when the colonies are thus separated, there is no longer direct competition between the two species and the producer can invade effectively unimpeded by its competitor. We note that the minimum toxin strength required to produce an inhibition zone increases rapidly with increasing bacterial diffusivity, suggesting that even moderately motile bacteria must produce very strong toxins if they are to benefit in this way.",
    "title": "Toxin-mediated competition in weakly motile bacteria.",
    "abstract": "Many empirical studies motivated by an interest in stable coexistence have quantified negative density dependence, negative frequency dependence, or negative plant-soil feedback, but the links between these empirical results and ecological theory are not straightforward. Here, we relate these analyses to theoretical conditions for stabilisation and stable coexistence in classical competition models. By stabilisation, we mean an excess of intraspecific competition relative to interspecific competition that inherently slows or even prevents competitive exclusion. We show that most, though not all, tests demonstrating negative density dependence, negative frequency dependence, and negative plant-soil feedback constitute sufficient conditions for stabilisation of two-species interactions if applied to data for per capita population growth rates of pairs of species, but none are necessary or sufficient conditions for stable coexistence of two species. Potential inferences are even more limited when communities involve more than two species, and when performance is measured at a single life stage or vital rate. We then discuss two approaches that enable stronger tests for stable coexistence-invasibility experiments and model parameterisation. The model parameterisation approach can be applied to typical density-dependence, frequency-dependence, and plant-soil feedback data sets, and generally enables better links with mechanisms and greater insights, as demonstrated by recent studies.",
    "title": "Signs of stabilisation and stable coexistence.",
    "abstract": "Recent work has shown that higher-order terms in population dynamics models can increase the stability, promote the diversity, and better explain the dynamics of ecological systems. While it is known that these perceived benefits come from an increasing number of alternative solutions given by the nature of multivariate polynomials, this mathematical advantage has not been formally quantified. Here, we develop a general method to quantify the mathematical advantage of adding higher-order interactions in ecological models based on the number of free-equilibrium points that can emerge in a system (i.e., equilibria that can be feasible or unfeasible as a function of model parameters). We apply this method to calculate the number of free-equilibrium points in Lotka-Volterra dynamics. While it is known that Lotka-Volterra models without higher-order interactions only have one free-equilibrium point regardless of the number of parameters, we find that by adding higher-order terms this number increases exponentially with the dimension of the system. Hence, the number of free-equilibrium points can be used to compare more fairly between ecological models. Our results suggest that while adding higher-order interactions in ecological models may be good for prediction purposes, they cannot provide additional explanatory power of ecological dynamics if model parameters are not ecologically restricted.",
    "title": "Is the addition of higher-order interactions in ecological models increasing the understanding of ecological dynamics?",
    "abstract": "Plant-animal mutualistic networks sustain terrestrial biodiversity and human food security. Global environmental changes threaten these networks, underscoring the urgency for developing a predictive theory on how networks respond to perturbations. Here, I synthesise theoretical advances towards predicting network structure, dynamics, interaction strengths and responses to perturbations. I find that mathematical models incorporating biological mechanisms of mutualistic interactions provide better predictions of network dynamics. Those mechanisms include trait matching, adaptive foraging, and the dynamic consumption and production of both resources and services provided by mutualisms. Models incorporating species traits better predict the potential structure of networks (fundamental niche), while theory based on the dynamics of species abundances, rewards, foraging preferences and reproductive services can predict the extremely dynamic realised structures of networks, and may successfully predict network responses to perturbations. From a theoretician's standpoint, model development must more realistically represent empirical data on interaction strengths, population dynamics and how these vary with perturbations from global change. From an empiricist's standpoint, theory needs to make specific predictions that can be tested by observation or experiments. Developing models using short-term empirical data allows models to make longer term predictions of community dynamics. As more longer term data become available, rigorous tests of model predictions will improve.",
    "title": "Mutualistic networks: moving closer to a predictive theory.",
    "abstract": "Many species live in spatially separated patches, and individuals can migrate between patches through paths. In real ecosystems, the capacities of patches are finite. If a patch is already occupied by the individuals of some species, then the migration into the patch is impossible. In the present paper, we deal with prey-predator system composed of two patches. Each patch contains a limited number of cells, where the cell is either empty or occupied by an individual of prey or predator. We introduce \"swapping migration\" defined by the exchange between occupied and empty cells. An individual can migrate, only when there are empty cells in the destination patch. Reaction-migration equations in prey-predator system are presented, where the migration term forms nonlinear function of densities. We numerically solve equilibrium densities, and find that the population dynamics are largely affected by nonlinear migration. Not only extinction points but also the responses to the environmental changes crucially depend on the patch capacities.",
    "title": "Metapopulation model for a prey-predator system: Nonlinear migration due to the finite capacities of patches.",
    "abstract": "Technology evolution describes a change in a technology performance over time. The modeling of technology evolution is crucial for designers, entrepreneurs, and government officials to set reasonable R&D targets, invest in promising technology, and develop effective incentive policies. Scientists and engineers have developed several mathematical functions such as logistic function and exponential function (Moore's Law) to model technology evolution. However, these models focus on how a technology evolves in isolation and do not consider how the technology interacts with other technologies. Here, we extend the Lotka-Volterra equations from community ecology to model a technology ecosystem with system, component, and fundamental layers. We model the technology ecosystem of passenger aircraft using the Lotka-Volterra equations. The results show limited trickle-down effect in the technology ecosystem, where we refer to the impact from an upper layer technology to a lower layer technology as a trickle-down effect. The limited trickle-down effect suggests that the advance of the system technology (passenger aircraft) is not able to automatically promote the performance of the component technology (turbofan aero-engine) and the fundamental technology (engine blade superalloy) that constitute the system. Our research warns that it may not be effective to maintain the prosperity of a technology ecosystem through government incentives on system technologies only. Decision makers should consider supporting the innovations of key component or fundamental technologies.",
    "title": "A case against the trickle-down effect in technology ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we propose and analyze a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition model with random perturbations that relate to the inter-specific competition rates and the coexistence equilibrium of the corresponding deterministic system. The stochasticity in inter-specific competition (between species) is more important than that in intra-specific competition (within species). We pose two assumptions and then obtain su cient conditions for coexistence and for competitive exclusion respectively, and find that small random perturbations will not destroy the dynamic behaviors of the corresponding deterministic system. Moreover, if one species goes extinct, the convergence rate to zero is obtained by investigating the Lyapunov exponent. Finally, we provide several numerical examples to illustrate our mathematical results.",
    "title": "The survival analysis of a stochastic Lotka-Volterra competition model with a coexistence equilibrium.",
    "abstract": "The question whether communities should be viewed as superorganisms or loose collections of individual species has been the subject of a long-standing debate in ecology. Each view implies different spatiotemporal community patterns. Along spatial environmental gradients, the organismic view predicts that species turnover is discontinuous, with sharp boundaries between communities, while the individualistic view predicts gradual changes in species composition. Using a spatially explicit multispecies competition model, we show that organismic and individualistic forms of community organisation are two limiting cases along a continuum of outcomes. A high variance of competition strength leads to the emergence of organism-like communities due to the presence of alternative stable states, while weak and uniform interactions induce gradual changes in species composition. Dispersal can play a confounding role in these patterns. Our work highlights the critical importance of considering species interactions to understand and predict the responses of species and communities to environmental changes.",
    "title": "Superorganisms or loose collections of species? A unifying theory of community patterns along environmental gradients.",
    "abstract": "Informational Structures (IS) and Informational Fields (IF) have been recently introduced to deal with a continuous dynamical systems-based approach to Integrated Information Theory (IIT). IS and IF contain all the geometrical and topological constraints in the phase space. This allows one to characterize all the past and future dynamical scenarios for a system in any particular state. In this paper, we develop further steps in this direction, describing a proper continuous framework for an abstract formulation, which could serve as a prototype of the IIT postulates.",
    "title": "Informational Structures and Informational Fields as a Prototype for the Description of Postulates of the Integrated Information Theory.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of species' densities depend both on internal and external variables. Internal variables include frequencies of individuals exhibiting different phenotypes or living in different spatial locations. External variables include abiotic factors or non-focal species. These internal or external variables may fluctuate due to stochastic fluctuations in environmental conditions. The interplay between these variables and species densities can determine whether a particular population persists or goes extinct. To understand this interplay, we prove theorems for stochastic persistence and exclusion for stochastic ecological difference equations accounting for internal and external variables. Specifically, we use a stochastic analog of average Lyapunov functions to develop sufficient and necessary conditions for (i) all population densities spending little time at low densities i.e. stochastic persistence, and (ii) population trajectories asymptotically approaching the extinction set with positive probability. For (i) and (ii), respectively, we provide quantitative estimates on the fraction of time that the system is near the extinction set, and the probability of asymptotic extinction as a function of the initial state of the system. Furthermore, in the case of persistence, we provide lower bounds for the expected time to escape neighborhoods of the extinction set. To illustrate the applicability of our results, we analyze stochastic models of evolutionary games, Lotka-Volterra dynamics, trait evolution, and spatially structured disease dynamics. Our analysis of these models demonstrates environmental stochasticity facilitates coexistence of strategies in the hawk-dove game, but inhibits coexistence in the rock-paper-scissors game and a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model. Furthermore, environmental fluctuations with positive auto-correlations can promote persistence of evolving populations and persistence of diseases in patchy landscapes. While our results help close the gap between the persistence theories for deterministic and stochastic systems, we highlight several challenges for future research.",
    "title": "Persistence and extinction for stochastic ecological models with internal and external variables.",
    "abstract": "Bald eagle (",
    "title": "Predator-prey dynamics of bald eagles and glaucous-winged gulls at Protection Island, Washington, USA.",
    "abstract": "The generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) equations, a classic model from theoretical ecology, describe the population dynamics of a set of interacting species. As the number of species in these systems grow in number, their dynamics become increasingly complex and intractable. We introduce steady-state reduction (SSR), a method that reduces a gLV system of many ecological species into two-dimensional subsystems that each obey gLV dynamics and whose basis vectors are steady states of the high-dimensional model. We apply this method to an experimentally-derived model of the gut microbiome in order to observe the transition between \"healthy\" and \"diseased\" microbial states. Specifically, we use SSR to investigate how fecal microbiota transplantation, a promising clinical treatment for dysbiosis, can revert a diseased microbial state to health.",
    "title": "Steady-state reduction of generalized Lotka-Volterra systems in the microbiome.",
    "abstract": "When three species compete cyclically in a well-mixed, stochastic system of N individuals, extinction is known to typically occur at times scaling as the system size N. This happens, for example, in rock-paper-scissors games or conserved Lotka-Volterra models in which every pair of individuals can interact on a complete graph. Here we show that if the competing individuals also have a \"social temperament\" to be either introverted or extroverted, leading them to cut or add links, respectively, then long-living states in which all species coexist can occur. These nonequilibrium quasisteady states only occur when both introverts and extroverts are present, thus showing that diversity can lead to stability in complex systems. In this case, it enables a subtle balance between species competition and network dynamics to be maintained.",
    "title": "Coevolution of nodes and links: Diversity-driven coexistence in cyclic competition of three species.",
    "abstract": "The objective of this work was to quantitatively evaluate the effect of Lactobacillus sakei CTC494 (sakacin-producing bioprotective strain) against Listeria monocytogenes in fish juice and to apply and validate three microbial interaction models (Jameson, modified Jameson and Lotka Volterra models) through challenge tests with gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata) fillets under modified atmosphere packaging stored at isothermal and non-isothermal conditions. L. sakei CTC494 inhibited L. monocytogenes growth when simultaneously present in the matrix (fish juice and fish fillets) at different inoculation ratios pathogen:bioprotector (i.e. 1:1, 1:2 and 1:3). The higher the inoculation ratio, the stronger the inhibition of L. monocytogenes growth, with the ratio 1:3 yielding no growth of the pathogen. The maximum population density (N",
    "title": "Modelling the interaction of the sakacin-producing Lactobacillus sakei CTC494 and Listeria monocytogenes in filleted gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata) under modified atmosphere packaging at isothermal and non-isothermal conditions.",
    "abstract": "Coexistence in ecological communities is governed largely by the nature and intensity of species interactions. Countless studies have proposed methods to infer these interactions from empirical data, yet models parameterised using such data often fail to recover observed coexistence patterns. Here, we propose a method to reconcile empirical parameterisations of community dynamics with species-abundance data, ensuring that the predicted equilibrium is consistent with the observed abundance distribution. To illustrate the approach, we explore two case studies: an experimental freshwater algal community and a long-term time series of displacement in an intertidal community. We demonstrate how our method helps recover observed coexistence patterns, capture the core dynamics of the system, and, in the latter case, predict the impacts of experimental extinctions. Collectively, these results demonstrate an intuitive approach for reconciling observed and empirical data, improving our ability to explore the links between species interactions and coexistence in natural systems.",
    "title": "Reconciling empirical interactions and species coexistence.",
    "abstract": "The affordability of high throughput DNA sequencing has allowed us to explore the dynamics of microbial populations in various ecosystems. Mathematical modeling and simulation of such microbiome time series data can help in getting better understanding of bacterial communities. In this paper, we present Web-gLV-a GUI based interactive platform for generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) based modeling and simulation of microbial populations. The tool can be used to generate the mathematical models with automatic estimation of parameters and use them to predict future trajectories using numerical simulations. We also demonstrate the utility of our tool on few publicly available datasets. The case studies demonstrate the ease with which the current tool can be used by biologists to model bacterial populations and simulate their dynamics to get biological insights. We expect Web-gLV to be a valuable contribution in the field of ecological modeling and metagenomic systems biology.",
    "title": "Web-gLV: A Web Based Platform for Lotka-Volterra Based Modeling and Simulation of Microbial Populations.",
    "abstract": "In many cases, the motility of species in a certain region can depend on the conditions of the local habitat, such as the availability of food and other resources for survival. For example, if resources are insufficient, the motility rate of a species is high, as they move in search of food. In this paper, we present intraguild predation (IGP) models with a nonuniform random dispersal, called starvation-driven diffusion, which is affected by the local conditions of habitats in heterogeneous environments. We consider a Lotka-Volterra-type model incorporating such dispersals, to understand how a nonuniform random dispersal affects the fitness of each species in a heterogeneous region. Our conclusion is that a nonuniform dispersal increases the fitness of species in a spatially heterogeneous environment. The results are obtained through an eigenvalue analysis of the semi-trivial steady state solutions for the linearized operator derived from the model with nonuniform random diffusion on IGPrey and IGPredator, respectively. Finally, a simulation and its biological interpretations are presented based on our results.",
    "title": "Intraguild predation with evolutionary dispersal in a spatially heterogeneous environment.",
    "abstract": "Explicit expressions in terms of Gaussian Hypergeometric functions are found for a 'balance' manifold that connects the non-zero steady states of a 2-species, non-competitive, scaled Lotka-Volterra system by the unique heteroclinic orbits. In this model, the parameters are the interspecific interaction coefficients which affects the form of the solution used. Similar to the carrying simplex of the competitive model, this balance simplex is the common boundary of the basin of repulsion of the origin and infinity, and is smooth except possibly at steady states.",
    "title": "The balance simplex in non-competitive 2-species scaled Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "Gaining knowledge of how ecosystems provide essential services to humans is of primary importance, especially with the current threat of climate change. Yet little is known about how increased temperature will impact the biodiversity-ecosystem functioning (BEF) relationship. We tackled this subject theoretically and experimentally. We developed a BEF theory based on mechanistic population dynamic models, which allows the inclusion of the effect of temperature. Using experimentally established relationships between attack rate and temperature, the model predicts that temperature increase will intensify competition, and consequently the BEF relationship will flatten or even become negative. We conducted a laboratory experiment with natural microbial microcosms, and the results were in agreement with the model predictions. The experimental results also revealed that an increase in both temperature average and variation had a more intense effect than an increase in temperature average alone. Our results indicate that under climate change, high diversity may not guarantee high ecosystem functioning.",
    "title": "Increased Temperature Disrupts the Biodiversity-Ecosystem Functioning Relationship.",
    "abstract": "The aim of this paper is to investigate the dynamical behaviour of a class of three species Lotka-Volterra competitive-competitive-cooperative models with feedback controls and time delays. By developing a new analysis technique, we obtain some sufficient conditions that ensure these models have the dynamical property of permanence. We also give some sufficient conditions that guarantee the global attractivity of positive solutions for this system by constructing a new suitable Lyapunov function. Finally, we give some numerical simulations to illustrate our results in this paper.",
    "title": "Dynamical behaviour of a Lotka-Volterra competitive-competitive-cooperative model with feedback controls and time delays.",
    "abstract": "Motivated by both analytical tractability and empirical practicality, community ecologists have long treated the species pair as the fundamental unit of study. This notwithstanding, the challenge of understanding more complex systems has repeatedly generated interest in the role of so-called higher-order interactions (HOIs) imposed by species beyond the focal pair. Here we argue that HOIs - defined as non-additive effects of density on per capita growth - are best interpreted as emergent properties of phenomenological models (e.g. Lotka-Volterra competition) rather than as distinct 'ecological processes' in their own right. Using simulations of consumer-resource models, we explore the mechanisms and system properties that give rise to HOIs in observational data. We demonstrate that HOIs emerge under all but the most restrictive of assumptions, and that incorporating non-additivity into phenomenological models improves the quantitative and qualitative accuracy of model predictions. Notably, we also observe that HOIs derive primarily from mechanisms and system properties that apply equally to single-species or pairwise systems as they do to more diverse communities. Consequently, there exists a strong mandate for further recognition of non-additive effects in both theoretical and empirical research.",
    "title": "The mechanistic basis for higher-order interactions and non-additivity in competitive communities.",
    "abstract": "Many population systems are subject to seasonally varying environments. As a result, many species exhibit seasonal changes in their life-history parameters. It is quite natural to try to understand how seasonal forcing affects population dynamics subject to stoichiometric constraints, such as nutrient/light availability and food quality. Here, we use a variation of a stoichiometric Lotka-Volterra type model, known as the LKE model, as a case study, focusing on seasonal variation in the producer's light-dependent carrying capacity. Positivity and boundedness of model solutions are studied, as well as numerical explorations and bifurcations analyses. In the absence of seasonal effects, the LKE model suggests that the dynamics are either stable equilibrium or limit cycles. However, through bifurcation analysis we observe that seasonal forcing can lead to complicated population dynamics, including periodic and quasi-periodic solutions.",
    "title": "Dynamics of a stoichiometric producer-grazer system with seasonal effects on light level.",
    "abstract": "Selection is commonly described by assigning constant relative fitness values to genotypes. Yet population density is often regulated by crowding. Relative fitness may then depend on density, and selection can change density when it acts on a density-regulating trait. When strong density-dependent selection acts on a density-regulating trait, selection is no longer describable by density-independent relative fitnesses, even in demographically stable populations. These conditions are met in most previous models of density-dependent selection (e.g.\u00a0\"K-selection\" in the logistic and Lotka-Volterra models), suggesting that density-independent relative fitnesses must be replaced with more ecologically explicit absolute fitnesses unless selection is weak. Here we show that density-independent relative fitnesses can also accurately describe strong density-dependent selection under some conditions. We develop a novel model of density-regulated population growth with three ecologically intuitive traits: fecundity, mortality, and competitive ability. Our model, unlike the logistic or Lotka-Volterra, incorporates a density-dependent juvenile \"reproductive excess\", which largely decouples density-dependent selection from the regulation of density. We find that density-independent relative fitnesses accurately describe strong selection acting on any one trait, even fecundity, which is both density-regulating and subject to density-dependent selection. Pleiotropic interactions between these traits recover the familiar K-selection behavior. In such cases, or when the population is maintained far from demographic equilibrium, our model offers a possible alternative to relative fitness.",
    "title": "Density-dependent selection and the limits of relative fitness.",
    "abstract": "Pico-cyanobacteria and micro-cyanobacteria coexist ubiquitously in many lakes. Differences in cell size and abilities to utilize nutrients may influence their distribution patterns. In this study, Synechococcus sp. and Microcystis aeruginosa were chosen as pico- and micro-cyanobacteria, respectively. Gradient phosphorus treatments (0.002, 0.01, 0.05, and 0.25\u00a0mg\u00a0P\u00a0L",
    "title": "Effects of Phosphorus on Interspecific Competition between two cell-size Cyanobacteria: Synechococcus sp. and Microcystis aeruginosa.",
    "abstract": "This study compares dynamic tertiary and competition models for L. monocytogenes growth as a function of intrinsic properties of a traditional Brazilian soft cheese and the inhibitory effect of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) during refrigerated storage. Cheeses were prepared from raw or pasteurized milk with or without the addition of selected LAB with known anti-listerial activity. Cheeses were analyzed for LAB and L. monocytogenes counts, pH and water activity (a",
    "title": "A comparison of dynamic tertiary and competition models for describing the fate of Listeria monocytogenes in Minas fresh cheese during refrigerated storage.",
    "abstract": "Climate warming will likely destabilize populations or drive consumers locally extinct. These predictions arise from consumer-resource models incorporating temperature-dependent parameters, and the accuracy of these predictions hinges on the validity of temperature scalings for each parameter. Among all parameters, carrying capacity (K) is the most ill-defined and the temperature scaling of this parameter has no empirically verified foundation. Most studies assume that K declines exponentially with warming, but others have assumed a positive or no relationship between K and temperature. Here, I developed a theoretical foundation for a temperature scaling of K based on physiological principles of temperature and nutrient limitation of phytoplankton growth. The trade-off between thermodynamics and nutrient uptake yields a unimodal thermal response curve for K, and this prediction is supported by empirical data on both phytoplankton and insects. Analyses of consumer-resource models demonstrate the primacy of K in determining predictions of coexistence and stability. Since K exerts a dominant influence on model predictions, ecologists should carefully consider the temperature scaling of K for the species and region in question to ensure accurate estimates of population stability and extinction risk.",
    "title": "Considering the effects of temperature\u00a0\u00d7\u00a0nutrient interactions on the thermal response curve of carrying capacity.",
    "abstract": "This study explores the impact of domestic low-cost carriers (LCCs) on regional tourism and aviation industries. In particular, it articulates the changing competitive dynamics between LCCs and full-service carriers (FSCs). The Lotka-Volterra (LV) model, utilising the newly proposed ",
    "title": "Evolving competition between low-cost carriers and full-service carriers: The case of South Korea.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics and stability of ecological communities are intimately linked with the specific interactions-like cooperation or predation-between constituent species. In microbial communities, like those found in soils or the mammalian gut, physical anisotropies produced by fluid flow and chemical gradients impact community structure and ecological dynamics, even in structurally isotropic environments. Although natural communities existing in physically unstructured environments are rare, the role of environmental structure in determining community dynamics and stability remains poorly studied. To address this gap, we used modified Lotka-Volterra simulations of competitive microbial communities to characterize the effects of surface structure on community dynamics. We find that environmental structure has profound effects on communities, in a manner dependent on the specific pattern of interactions between community members. For two mutually competing species, eventual extinction of one competitor is effectively guaranteed in isotropic environments. However, addition of environmental structure enables long-term coexistence of both species via local \"pinning\" of competition interfaces, even when one species has a significant competitive advantage. In contrast, while three species competing in an intransitive loop (as in a game of rock-paper-scissors) coexist stably in isotropic environments, structural anisotropy disrupts the spatial patterns on which coexistence depends, causing chaotic population fluctuations and subsequent extinction cascades. These results indicate that the stability of microbial communities strongly depends on the structural environment in which they reside. Therefore, a more complete ecological understanding, including effective manipulation and interventions in natural communities of interest, must account for the physical structure of the environment.",
    "title": "Structured environments fundamentally alter dynamics and stability of ecological communities.",
    "abstract": "Otitis media (OM) is a common polymicrobial infection of the middle ear in children under the age of 15 years. A widely used experimental strategy to analyse roles of specific phenotypes of bacterial pathogens of OM is to study changes in co-infection kinetics of bacterial populations in animal models when a wild-type bacterial strain is replaced by a specific isogenic mutant strain in the co-inoculating mixtures. As relationships between the OM bacterial pathogens within the host are regulated by many interlinked processes, connecting the changes in the co-infection kinetics to a bacterial phenotype can be challenging. We investigated middle ear co-infections in adult chinchillas (",
    "title": "Mutations in bacterial genes induce unanticipated changes in the relationship between bacterial pathogens in experimental otitis media.",
    "abstract": "The number of limit cycles for three dimensional Lotka-Volterra competitive systems is an open problem. Recently, we have presented a concrete example with three limit cycles in Zeeman's class 27\u00a0[6]. In this paper, we present a concrete example with three limit cycles which belongs to Zeeman's class 29. We explicitly give the critical parameter values such that the interior equilibrium is an exact unstable weak focus of order two. Also we verify that the system is permanent. This implies that there can exist three limit cycles around the interior equilibrium under suitable perturbations. We actually generate multiple limit cycles, and confirm them by numerical simulation. In addition, we present some other examples with three limit cycles in Zeeman's class 27.",
    "title": "A concrete example with three limit cycles in Zeeman's class 29 for three dimensional Lotka-Volterra competitive systems.",
    "abstract": "We report for the first time the in situ dynamics of a vampyrellid in a marine system. A high sampling frequency (twice-weekly) was applied in a tropical eutrophic lagoon (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) for 5 years (2012-2016). The vampyrellid Hyalodiscus sp. specifically fed on the diatom Chaetoceros minimus during a short time window (~3 months), although the prey was intermittently detected as the dominant phytoplanktonic species over a longer period (~1 year). A classic Lotka-Volterra predator-prey dynamic was observed between the two partners, with a significant modification of the short-term oscillations of the prey. Specific abiotic preferences (i.e., relatively low temperature, intermediate salinity, and stratified conditions) associated with prey availability seemed to define this narrow temporal window of occurrence. Our results suggest that vampyrellids can be ecologically relevant in marine pelagic systems, with their impact on planktonic dynamics strongly depending on complex interactions between both biotic and abiotic factors.",
    "title": "First report of vampyrellid predator-prey dynamics in a marine system.",
    "abstract": "Single and co-culture systems of Microcystis aeruginosa and Scenedesmus obliquus were prepared with different initial algal densities and treated with different concentrations of aqueous extracts from the rhizome of Pontederia cordata to study its inhibitory effect on algal growth and the competitive relationship between these two algal species. The results showed that aqueous extracts could inhibit the growth of M. aeruginosa and S. obliquus, and the inhibition rate of aqueous extracts on the growth of M. aeruginosa was always higher than that of S. obliquus. A Lotka-Volterra competition model revealed that these two algal species can co-exist without the addition of aqueous extracts, and S. obliquus exhibited a stronger ability to compete than that of M. aeruginosa. Meanwhile, the dominant algal species changed with the addition of aqueous extracts regardless of the initial ratios of the two algae. The species ratio of mixed cultures had a strong effect on the interspecific interaction between the two algae. The higher proportion of S. obliquus in the initial proportion of two algae, the stronger competitive ability of S. obliquus when compared with that of M. aeruginosa.",
    "title": "Effects of aqueous extracts from the rhizome of Pontederia cordata on the growth and interspecific competition of two algal species.",
    "abstract": "We study the evolutionary stability of dispersal strategies, including but not limited to those that can produce ideal free population distributions (that is, distributions where all individuals have equal fitness and there is no net movement of individuals at equilibrium). The environment is assumed to be variable in space but constant in time. We assume that there is a separation of times scales, so that dispersal occurs on a fast timescale, evolution occurs on a slow timescale, and population dynamics and interactions occur on an intermediate timescale. Starting with advection-diffusion models for dispersal without population dynamics, we use the large time limits of profiles for population distributions together with the distribution of resources in the environment to calculate growth and interaction coefficients in logistic and Lotka-Volterra ordinary differential equations describing population dynamics. We then use a pairwise invasibility analysis approach motivated by adaptive dynamics to study the evolutionary and/or convergence stability of strategies determined by various assumptions about the advection and diffusion terms in the original advection-diffusion dispersal models. Among other results we find that those strategies which can produce an ideal free distribution are evolutionarily stable.",
    "title": "Evolution of dispersal in spatial population models with multiple timescales.",
    "abstract": "Data of next-generation sequencing (NGS) and their analysis have been facilitating advances in our understanding of microbial ecosystems such as human gut microbiota. However, inference of microbial interactions occurring within an ecosystem is still a challenge mainly due to sequencing data (e.g., 16S rDNA sequences) providing relative abundance of microbes instead of absolute cell count. In order to describe growtth dynamics of microbial communities and estimate the involved microbial interactions, we introduce a procedure by integrating generalized Lotka-Volterra equations, forward stepwise regression and bootstrap aggregation. First, we successfully identify experimentally confirmed microbial interactions based on relative abundance data of a cheese microbial community. Then, we apply the procedure to time-series of 16S rDNA sequences of gut microbiomes of children who were progressing to Type 1 diabetes (T1D progressors), and compare their gut microbial interactions to a healthy control group. Our results suggest that the number of inferred microbial interactions increased over time during the first 3 years of life. More microbial interactions are found in the gut flora of healthy children than that of T1D progressors. The inhibitory effects from ",
    "title": "Inference of Significant Microbial Interactions From Longitudinal Metagenomics Data.",
    "abstract": "In population genetics, fixation of traits in a demographically changing population under frequency-independent selection has been extensively analysed. In evolutionary game theory, models of fixation have typically focused on fixed population sizes and frequency-dependent selection. A combination of demographic fluctuations with frequency-dependent interactions such as Lotka-Volterra dynamics has received comparatively little attention. We consider a stochastic, competitive Lotka-Volterra model with higher order interactions between two traits. The emerging individual-based model allows for stochastic fluctuations in the frequencies of the two traits and the total population size. We calculate the fixation probability of a trait under differing competition coefficients. This fixation probability resembles, qualitatively, the deterministic evolutionary dynamics. Furthermore, we partially disentangle the selection effects into their ecological and evolutionary components. We find that changing the evolutionary selection strength also changes the population dynamics and vice versa. Thus, a clean separation of the ecological and evolutionary effects is not possible. Instead, our results imply a nested interaction of the evolutionary and ecological effects. The entangled eco-evolutionary processes thus cannot be ignored when determining fixation properties in a co-evolutionary system.",
    "title": "Disentangling eco-evolutionary effects on trait fixation.",
    "abstract": "We analyse the asymptotic behaviour of integro-differential equations modelling N populations in interaction, all structured by different traits. Interactions are modelled by non-local terms involving linear combinations of the total number of individuals in each population. These models have already been shown to be suitable for the modelling of drug resistance in cancer, and they generalize the usual Lotka-Volterra ordinary differential equations. Our aim is to give conditions under which there is persistence of all species. Through the analysis of a Lyapunov function, our first main result gives a simple and general condition on the matrix of interactions, together with a convergence rate. The second main result establishes another type of condition in the specific case of mutualistic interactions. When either of these conditions is met, we describe which traits are asymptotically selected.",
    "title": "Global stability with selection in integro-differential Lotka-Volterra systems modelling trait-structured populations.",
    "abstract": "The prey-predator model in the form of Lotka-Volterra equation represents a nonlinear description of the dynamics of two or more interacting populations. In this article, several versions of the Lotka-Volterra model are analyzed from the point of view of parameter uncertainty. The uncertainty treatment is quite different from the common approach. We do not treat uncertain parameters as random. Instead, we analyze the behavior of the models supposing that the uncertain parameters may change in time within given limits. The simulation tool used in this paper is based on the differential inclusions, instead of the ordinary differential equations. This permits us to determine the attainable sets in the state space, due to the parameter uncertainty.",
    "title": "Uncertainty Treatment in Prey-Predator Models Using Differential Inclusions.",
    "abstract": "In microbial communities, the keystone species have a greater impact on the performance and dynamics of ecosystem than that of other species, in which we can see from the results that losing gut microbiome causes some specific diseases. A number of ongoing studies aim at identifying links between microbial community structure and human diseases.\nIn this paper, we have introduced a valid keystone species identification method, in which a new Spread Intensity (SI) algorithm is used. Because the accuracies of current keystone species identification algorithms are difficult to evaluate for the high diversity and uncultivated status of microbial communities, we simulated cross-sectional data of microbial communities with known interactions and set up standard keystoneness rankings using Generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) model. Subsequently, we compared the SI algorithm with existing methods by using simulated data and obtained an obvious better performance of SI algorithm than other methods. Also, we applied this method to gut microbiota datasets and identified some microbes having the potential association with body weight. We first assembled three correlation metrics to calculate the interspecies correlation. Then we applied network deconvolution to remove indirect correlations. Finally, we used Molecular Ecological Network Analysis (MENA) to construct the co-occurrence network. According to experimental results, SI algorithm has an excellent performance in identifying highly correlated species in gut microbiome to body weight.\nThis result provides an effective indicator for modulating gut microbiota and thus enables the gene therapy and other gene-level treatments for losing-weight and other gut-associated diseases.",
    "title": "Identifying Keystone Species in the Microbial Community Based on Cross- Sectional Data.",
    "abstract": "Random matrix theory successfully connects the structure of interactions of large ecological communities to their ability to respond to perturbations. One of the most debated aspects of this approach is that so far studies have neglected the role of population abundances on stability. While species abundances are well studied and empirically accessible, studies on stability have so far failed to incorporate this information. Here we tackle this question by explicitly including population abundances in a random matrix framework. We derive an analytical formula that describes the spectrum of a large community matrix for arbitrary feasible species abundance distributions. The emerging picture is remarkably simple: while population abundances affect the rate to return to equilibrium after a perturbation, the stability of large ecosystems is uniquely determined by the interaction matrix. We confirm this result by showing that the likelihood of having a feasible and unstable solution in the Lotka-Volterra system of equations decreases exponentially with the number of species for stable interaction matrices.",
    "title": "Effect of population abundances on the stability of large random ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "We consider the inverse problem for the identification of the finite dimensional set of parameters for systems of nonlinear ordinary differential equations (ODEs) arising in systems biology. A numerical method which combines Bellman's quasilinearization with sensitivity analysis and Tikhonov's regularization is implemented. We apply the method to various biological models such as the classical Lotka-Volterra system, bistable switch model in genetic regulatory networks, gene regulation and repressilator models from synthetic biology. The numerical results and application to real data demonstrate the quadratic convergence.",
    "title": "Identification of parameters in systems biology.",
    "abstract": "Pollination interactions are common, and their maintenance is critical for many food crops upon which human populations depend. Pollination is a mutualism interaction; together with predation and competition, mutualism makes up the triumvirate of fundamental interactions that control population dynamics. Here we examine pollination interactions (nectar reward for gamete transport service) using a simple heuristic model similar to the Lotka-Volterra models that have underpinned our understanding of predation and competition so effectively since the 1920s. We use a genetic algorithm to simulate the eco-evolutionary interactions of the plant and pollinator populations and examine the distributions of the parameter values and zero isoclines to infer the relative ubiquity of the various eco-evolutionary outcomes possible in the model. Our results suggest that trade-offs between costs and benefits for the pollinator may be a key component of obligate pollination systems in achieving adaptive success creating and stably occupying mutualist niches.",
    "title": "Simulating Eco-evolutionary Processes in an Obligate Pollination Model with a Genetic Algorithm.",
    "abstract": "We propose Lotka-Volterra type predator-prey equations which include small constant terms. Depending on its sign, the constant may model various things. To see the effect of the constants clearly we drop all other functional responses except the ones in the original Lotka-Volterra equations. We add a small negative constant for the harvesting or the Allee effect. A positive constant is added to model the planting or external influx. We find the predator-prey equations with constant terms produce most of dynamic and static patterns observed from other predator-prey models with various functional responses.",
    "title": "Predator-prey equations with constant harvesting and planting.",
    "abstract": "The Neanderthal body was more robust and energetically costly than the bodies of anatomically modern humans (AMH). Different metabolic budgets between competing populations of Neanderthals and AMH may have been a factor in the varied ranges of behavior and timelines for Neanderthal extinction that we see in the Paleolithic archaeological record. This paper uses an adaptation of the Lotka-Volterra model to determine whether metabolic differences alone could have accounted for Neanderthal extinction. In addition, we use a modeling approach to investigate Neanderthal fire use, evidence for which is much debated and is variable throughout different climatic phases of the Middle Paleolithic. The increased caloric yield from a cooked versus a raw diet may have played an important role in population competition between Neanderthals and AMH. We arrive at two key conclusions. First, given differences in metabolic budget between Neanderthals and AMH and their dependence on similar or overlapping food resources, Neanderthal extinction is likely inevitable over the long term. Second, the rate of Neanderthal extinction increases as the frequency of AMH fire use increases. Results highlight the importance of understanding the variable behaviors at play on a regional scale in order to understand global Neanderthal extinction. We also emphasize the importance of understanding the role of fire use in the Middle to Upper Paleolithic transition.",
    "title": "Modeling the role of fire and cooking in the competitive exclusion of Neanderthals.",
    "abstract": "Microbial phylogenetic diversity and species interactions in natural ecosystems have been investigated extensively, but our knowledge about their ecological roles, community dynamics and succession patterns is far from complete. This knowledge is essential to understand the complicated interactions of microorganisms in natural ecosystems. Here, an artificial ecosystem model of microorganisms was constructed from oil-well products and cultivated in a chemostat to investigate the succession pattern of alkane-degrading bacteria, a functional population in oil reservoirs. Their abundance was quantified by an improved qPCR technique. Our results showed that the phylogenetic structure of this artificial ecosystem model is stable during most of the chemostat cultivation process, while the genotype structure of alkane-degrading bacteria containing alkB genes shifted and their relative abundance oscillated similarly to a sinusoidal curve, like the succession pattern of producers in the Lotka-Volterra model. These results suggest that some theoretical frameworks of macroecology may work well in microbial ecosystems and be an efficient tool to understand them.",
    "title": "The relative abundance of alkane-degrading bacteria oscillated similarly to a sinusoidal curve in an artificial ecosystem model from oil-well products.",
    "abstract": "This paper is devoted to the analysis of a simple Lotka-Volterra food chain evolving in a stochastic environment. It can be seen as the companion paper of Hening and Nguyen (J Math Biol 76:697-754, 2018b) where we have characterized the persistence and extinction of such a food chain under the assumption that there is no intraspecific competition among predators. In the current paper, we focus on the case when all the species experience intracompetition. The food chain we analyze consists of one prey and [Formula: see text] predators. The jth predator eats the [Formula: see text]st species and is eaten by the [Formula: see text]st predator; this way each species only interacts with at most two other species-the ones that are immediately above or below it in the trophic chain. We show that one can classify, based on the invasion rates of the predators (which we can determine from the interaction coefficients of the system via an algorithm), which species go extinct and which converge to their unique invariant probability measure. We obtain stronger results than in the case with no intraspecific competition because in this setting we can make use of the general results of Hening and Nguyen (Ann Appl Probab 28:1893-1942, 2018a). Unlike most of the results available in the literature, we provide an in-depth analysis for both non-degenerate and degenerate noise. We exhibit our general results by analyzing trophic cascades in a plant-herbivore-predator system and providing persistence/extinction criteria for food chains of length [Formula: see text].",
    "title": "Persistence in Stochastic Lotka-Volterra Food Chains with Intraspecific Competition.",
    "abstract": "In large but finite populations, weak demographic stochasticity due to random birth and death events can lead to population extinction. The process is analogous to the escaping problem of trapped particles under random forces. Methods widely used in studying such physical systems, for instance, Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) and Fokker-Planck methods, can be applied to solve similar biological problems. In this article, we comparatively analyse applications of WKB and Fokker-Planck methods to some typical stochastic population dynamical models, including the logistic growth, endemic SIR, predator-prey, and competitive Lotka-Volterra models. The mean extinction time strongly depends on the nature of the corresponding deterministic fixed point(s). For different types of fixed points, the extinction can be driven either by rare events or typical Gaussian fluctuations. In the former case, the large deviation function that governs the distribution of rare events can be well-approximated by the WKB method in the weak noise limit. In the later case, the simpler Fokker-Planck approximation approach is also appropriate.",
    "title": "Applications of WKB and Fokker-Planck Methods in Analyzing Population Extinction Driven by Weak Demographic Fluctuations.",
    "abstract": "Nowadays, microbial communities are frequently monitored over long periods of time and the interactions between their members are explored in vitro. This development has opened the way to apply mathematical models to characterize community structure and dynamics, to predict responses to perturbations and to explore general dynamical properties such as stability, alternative stable states and periodicity. Here, we highlight the role of dynamical systems theory in the exploration of microbial communities, with a special emphasis on the generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) equations. In particular, we discuss applications, assumptions and limitations of the gLV model, mention modifications to address these limitations and review stochastic extensions. The development of dynamical models, together with the generation of time series data, can improve the design and control of microbial communities.",
    "title": "Microbial communities as dynamical systems.",
    "abstract": "We construct two ordinary-differential-equation models of a predator feeding adaptively on two prey types, and we evaluate the models' ability to fit data on freshwater plankton. We model the predator's switch from one prey to the other in two different ways: (i) smooth switching using a hyperbolic tangent function; and (ii) by incorporating a parameter that changes abruptly across the switching boundary as a system variable that is coupled to the population dynamics. We conduct linear stability analyses, use approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) combined with a population Monte Carlo (PMC) method to fit model parameters, and compare model results quantitatively to data for ciliate predators and their two algal prey groups collected from Lake Constance on the German-Swiss-Austrian border. We show that the two models fit the data well when the smooth transition is steep, supporting the simplifying assumption of a discontinuous prey-switching behavior for this scenario. We thus conclude that prey switching is a possible mechanistic explanation for the observed ciliate-algae dynamics in Lake Constance in spring, but that these data cannot distinguish between the details of prey switching that are encoded in these different models.",
    "title": "Inferring parameters of prey switching in a 1 predator-2 prey plankton system with a linear preference tradeoff.",
    "abstract": "Reaction-diffusion systems with a Lotka-Volterra-type reaction term, also known as competition-diffusion systems, have been used to investigate the dynamics of the competition among m ecological species for a limited resource necessary to their survival and growth. Notwithstanding their rather simple mathematical structure, such systems may display quite interesting behaviours. In particular, while for [Formula: see text] no coexistence of the two species is usually possible, if [Formula: see text] we may observe coexistence of all or a subset of the species, sensitively depending on the parameter values. Such coexistence can take the form of very complex spatio-temporal patterns and oscillations. Unfortunately, at the moment there are no known tools for a complete analytical study of such systems for [Formula: see text]. This means that establishing general criteria for the occurrence of coexistence appears to be very hard. In this paper we will instead give some criteria for the non-coexistence of species, motivated by the ecological problem of the invasion of an ecosystem by an exotic species. We will show that when the environment is very favourable to the invading species the invasion will always be successful and the native species will be driven to extinction. On the other hand, if the environment is not favourable enough, the invasion will always fail.",
    "title": "Ecological invasion in competition-diffusion systems when the exotic species is either very strong or very weak.",
    "abstract": "Growth rates, interactions between community members, stochasticity, and immigration are important drivers of microbial community dynamics. In sequencing data analysis, such as network construction and community model parameterization, we make implicit assumptions about the nature of these drivers and thereby restrict model outcome. Despite apparent risk of methodological bias, the validity of the assumptions is rarely tested, as comprehensive procedures are lacking. Here, we propose a classification scheme to determine the processes that gave rise to the observed time series and to enable better model selection.\nWe implemented a three-step classification scheme in R that first determines whether dependence between successive time steps (temporal structure) is present in the time series and then assesses with a recently developed neutrality test whether interactions between species are required for the dynamics. If the first and second tests confirm the presence of temporal structure and interactions, then parameters for interaction models are estimated. To quantify the importance of temporal structure, we compute the noise-type profile of the community, which ranges from black in case of strong dependency to white in the absence of any dependency. We applied this scheme to simulated time series generated with the Dirichlet-multinomial (DM) distribution, Hubbell's neutral model, the generalized Lotka-Volterra model and its discrete variant (the Ricker model), and a self-organized instability model, as well as to human stool microbiota time series. The noise-type profiles for all but DM data clearly indicated distinctive structures. The neutrality test correctly classified all but DM and neutral time series as non-neutral. The procedure reliably identified time series for which interaction inference was suitable. Both tests were required, as we demonstrated that all structured time series, including those generated with the neutral model, achieved a moderate to high goodness of fit to the Ricker model.\nWe present a fast and robust scheme to classify community structure and to assess the prevalence of interactions directly from microbial time series data. The procedure not only serves to determine ecological drivers of microbial dynamics, but also to guide selection of appropriate community models for prediction and follow-up analysis.",
    "title": "Signatures of ecological processes in microbial community time series.",
    "abstract": "Theory predicts that intraspecific competition should be stronger than interspecific competition for any pair of stably coexisting species, yet previous literature reviews found little support for this pattern. We screened over 5400 publications and identified 39 studies that quantified phenomenological intraspecific and interspecific interactions in terrestrial plant communities. Of the 67% of species pairs in which both intra- and interspecific effects were negative (competitive), intraspecific competition was, on average, four to five-fold stronger than interspecific competition. Of the remaining pairs, 93% featured intraspecific competition and interspecific facilitation, a situation that stabilises coexistence. The difference between intra- and interspecific effects tended to be larger in observational than experimental data sets, in field than greenhouse studies, and in studies that quantified population growth over the full life cycle rather than single fitness components. Our results imply that processes promoting stable coexistence at local scales are common and consequential across terrestrial plant communities.",
    "title": "Competition and coexistence in plant communities: intraspecific competition is stronger than interspecific competition.",
    "abstract": "Globalization and migratory fluxes are increasing the ethnic and racial diversity within many countries. Therefore, describing social dynamics requires models that are apt to capture multi-groups interactions. Building on the assumption of a relationship between multi-racial dynamics and ",
    "title": "A mathematical approach to study and forecast racial groups interactions: deterministic modeling and scenario method.",
    "abstract": "The population dynamics of two interacting species modeled by the Lotka-Volterra (LV) model with general parameters that can promote or suppress the other species is studied. It is found that the properties of the two species' isoclines determine the interaction of species, leading to six regimes in the phase diagram of interspecies interaction; i.e., there are six different interspecific relationships described by the LV model. Four regimes allow for nontrivial species coexistence, among which it is found that three of them are stable, namely, weak competition, mutualism, and predator-prey scenarios can lead to win-win coexistence situations. The Lyapunov function for general nontrivial two-species coexistence is also constructed. Furthermore, in the presence of spatial diffusion of the species, the dynamics can lead to steady wavefront propagation and can alter the population map. Propagating wavefront solutions in one dimension are investigated analytically and by numerical solutions. The steady wavefront speeds are obtained analytically via nonlinear dynamics analysis and verified by numerical solutions. In addition to the inter- and intraspecific interaction parameters, the intrinsic speed parameters of each species play a decisive role in species populations and wave properties. In some regimes, both species can copropagate with the same wave speeds in a finite range of parameters. Our results are further discussed in the light of possible biological relevance and ecological implications.",
    "title": "General two-species interacting Lotka-Volterra system: Population dynamics and wave propagation.",
    "abstract": "A global framework for treating nonlinear differential dynamical systems is presented. It rests on the fact that most systems can be transformed into the quasi-polynomial format. Any system in this format belongs to an infinite equivalence class characterized by two canonical forms, the Lotka-Volterra (LV) and the monomial systems. Both forms allow for finding total or partial integrability conditions, invariants and dimension reductions of the original systems. The LV form also provides Lyapunov functions and systematic tools for stability analysis. An abstract Lie algebra is shown to underlie the whole formalism. This abstract algebra can be expressed in several realizations among which are the bosonic creation-destruction operators. One of these representations allows one to obtain the analytic form of the general coefficient of the Taylor series representing the solution of the original system. This generates a new class of special functions that are solutions of these nonlinear dynamical systems. From the monomial canonical form, one can prove an equivalence relationship between urn processes and dynamical systems. This establishes a new link between nonlinear dynamics and stochastic processes.This article is part of the theme issue 'Dissipative structures in matter out of equilibrium: from chemistry, photonics and biology (part 1)'.",
    "title": "Reducing nonlinear dynamical systems to canonical forms.",
    "abstract": "Understanding how patterns and travelling waves form in chemical and biological reaction-diffusion models is an area which has been widely researched, yet is still experiencing fast development. Surprisingly enough, we still do not have a clear understanding about all possible types of dynamical regimes in classical reaction-diffusion models, such as Lotka-Volterra competition models with spatial dependence. In this study, we demonstrate some new types of wave propagation and pattern formation in a classical three species cyclic competition model with spatial diffusion, which have been so far missed in the literature. These new patterns are characterized by a high regularity in space, but are different from patterns previously known to exist in reaction-diffusion models, and may have important applications in improving our understanding of biological pattern formation and invasion theory. Finding these new patterns is made technically possible by using an automatic adaptive finite element method driven by a novel ",
    "title": "Revealing new dynamical patterns in a reaction-diffusion model with cyclic competition via a novel computational framework.",
    "abstract": "Ecological and evolutionary dynamics observed in mutualistic communities can be shaped by several mechanisms, including ecological interactions and their co-evolutionary consequences. Here we explore how intra and interspecific competition, together with mutualistic interactions, can affect community assembly through their effects on adaptive diversification and the emergence of biodiversity. To capture both ecological and evolutionary processes simultaneously, we used the adaptive dynamics approach based on a Lotka-Volterra framework and simulated the ecological dynamics of populations as well as the evolutionary dynamics of phenotypic traits. Depending on the initial trait values, two possible alternative evolutionary regimes emerged: traits evolve towards either optimal utilization of environmental resources or maximizing the benefits from mutualistic interactions. Diversification and overall biodiversity are mostly driven by frequency-dependent competition, while mutualism plays an important role in enhancing ecosystem productivity and evolutionary stability. Because different initial trait values in a community can lead to alternative evolutionary regimes, species loss and biological invasions could not only alter ecological dynamics but also push the system onto an alternative successional climax or evolutionary end point. It thus becomes essential to clarify the past evolutionary dynamics so as to draw conclusions on key community assembly processes.",
    "title": "Alternative assembly processes from trait-mediated co-evolution in mutualistic communities.",
    "abstract": "We study the fixation probability of a mutant type when introduced into a resident population. We implement a stochastic competitive Lotka-Volterra model with two types and intra- and interspecific competition. The model further allows for stochastically varying population sizes. The competition coefficients are interpreted in terms of inverse payoffs emerging from an evolutionary game. Since our study focuses on the impact of the competition values, we assume the same net growth rate for both types. In this general framework, we derive a formula for the fixation probability [Formula: see text] of the mutant type under weak selection. We find that the most important parameter deciding over the invasion success of the mutant is its death rate due to competition with the resident. Furthermore, we compare our approximation to results obtained by implementing population size changes deterministically in order to explore the parameter regime of validity of our method. Finally, we put our formula in the context of classical evolutionary game theory and observe similarities and differences to the results obtained in that constant population size setting.",
    "title": "Fixation probabilities in populations under demographic fluctuations.",
    "abstract": "The number of plant and animal species that exist today is estimated to be around 8.7 million. Approximately 300,000 of these species are flora. This extremely high species diversity has been puzzling scientist since the beginning of ecological research because most of these species compete for limited resources that should lead to the exclusion of all but few superior species. This can be seen in a number of coexistence model today that can only maintain at most four species at a time. We have shown recently that by incorporating minute differences in microhabitat to a lattice competition model, about 13 species can coexist from an initial number of 20. Here, we improve the model further by considering that microhabitat differences are not fixed but can change over time which can affect coexistence. A primary driver to this alteration is climate change, both natural and human induced. To show the resistance of a lattice plant community model, a dynamic microhabitat locality is incorporated by changing the spatial and species-specific heterogeneity of each lattice site. We show that even if the microhabitat locality of each plant species is dynamic, diversity can still be maintained in a lattice plant ecosystem model. This shows that natural communities of terrestrial plants can be resistant to the stress of microhabitat locality changes to a certain extent.",
    "title": "Resistance of a terrestrial plant community to local microhabitat changes.",
    "abstract": "DNA strand displacement as a theoretic foundation is helpful in constructing reaction networks and DNA circuits. Research on chemical kinetics is significant to exploit the inherent potential property of biomolecular systems. In this study, we investigated two typical reactions and designed DNA strands with a fluorophore and dark quencher for reaction networks using a 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillator system as an example to show the convenience of and superiority for observation of dynamic trajectory using our design, and took advantage of the synchronization reaction module to synchronize two 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillators. The classical theory of chemical reaction networks can be used to represent biological processes for mathematical modeling. We used this method to simulate the nonlinear kinetics of a 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillator system.",
    "title": "Visual synchronization of two 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillators based on DNA strand displacement.",
    "abstract": "We theoretically study the dynamics of two interacting microbial species in the chemostat. These species are competitors for a common resource, as well as mutualists due to cross-feeding. In line with previous studies (Assaneo, et al., 2013; Holland, et al., 2010; Iwata, et al., 2011), we demonstrate that this system has a rich repertoire of dynamical behavior, including bistability. Standard Lotka-Volterra equations are not capable to describe this particular system, as these account for only one type of interaction (mutualistic or competitive). We show here that the different steady state solutions can be well captured by an extended Lotka-Volterra model, which better describe the density-dependent interaction (mutualism at low density and competition at high density). This two-variable model provides a more intuitive description of the dynamical behavior than the chemostat equations.",
    "title": "Bistability in a system of two species interacting through mutualism as well as competition: Chemostat vs. Lotka-Volterra equations.",
    "abstract": "Because the Lotka-Volterra competitive equations posit no specific competitive mechanisms, they are exceedingly general, and can theoretically approximate any underlying mechanism of competition near equilibrium. In practice, however, these models rarely generate accurate predictions in diverse communities. We propose that this difference between theory and practice may be caused by how uncertainty propagates through Lotka-Volterra systems. In approximating mechanistic relationships with Lotka-Volterra models, associations among parameters are lost, and small variation can correspond to large and unrealistic changes in predictions. We demonstrate that constraining Lotka-Volterra models using correlations among parameters expected from hypothesized underlying mechanisms can reintroduce some of the underlying structure imposed by those mechanisms, thereby improving model predictions by both reducing bias and increasing precision. Our results suggest that this hybrid approach may combine some of the generality of phenomenological models with the broader applicability and meaningful interpretability of mechanistic approaches. These methods could be useful in poorly understood systems for identifying important coexistence mechanisms, or for making more accurate predictions.",
        "Model abstraction",
    "title": "Harnessing uncertainty to approximate mechanistic models of interspecific interactions.",
    "abstract": "Retrieval of episodic memory is a dynamical process in the large scale brain networks. In social groups, the neural patterns, associated with specific events directly experienced by single members, are encoded, recalled, and shared by all participants. Here, we construct and study the dynamical model for the formation and maintaining of episodic memory in small ensembles of interacting minds. We prove that the unconventional dynamical attractor of this process-the nonsmooth heteroclinic torus-is structurally stable within the Lotka-Volterra-like sets of equations. Dynamics on this torus combines the absence of chaos with asymptotic instability of every separate trajectory; its adequate quantitative characteristics are length-related Lyapunov exponents. Variation of the coupling strength between the participants results in different types of sequential switching between metastable states; we interpret them as stages in formation and modification of the episodic memory.",
    "title": "Mind-to-mind heteroclinic coordination: Model of sequential episodic memory initiation.",
    "abstract": "Deltoblastus batheri and Deltoblastus delta occur concurrently in many Permian deposits from Timor. Closely related sister species living in direct proximity without alteration in feeding habit would be in direct violation of Lotka-Volterra dynamics. These two species were measured and compared to see if any evidence of differentiation along feeding lines has occurred in order to reduce direct competition. P-values obtained via Student's t test display significant differentiation across all measured parameters. Thin-plate splines were used to visualize these differences, and clearly show the differences which are focused on the ambulacral region of the blastoids, which are the primary food gathering point for these species.",
    "title": "Niche partitioning as a mechanism for locally high species diversity within a geographically limited genus of blastoid.",
    "abstract": "Predator-prey systems have been studied intensively for over a hundred years. These studies have demonstrated that the dynamics of Lotka-Volterra (LV) systems are not stable, that is, exhibiting either cyclic oscillation or divergent extinction of one species. Stochastic versions of the deterministic cyclic oscillations also exhibit divergent extinction. Thus, we have no solution for asymptotic stability in predator-prey systems, unlike most natural predator-prey interactions that sometimes exhibit stable and persistent coexistence. Here, we demonstrate that adding a small immigration into the prey or predator population can stabilize the LV system. Although LV systems have been studied intensively, there is no study on the non-linear modifications that we have tested. We also checked the effect of the inclusion of non-linear interaction term to the stability of the LV system. Our results show that small immigrations invoke stable convergence in the LV system with three types of functional responses. This means that natural predator-prey populations can be stabilized by a small number of sporadic immigrants.",
    "title": "Asymptotic stability of a modified Lotka-Volterra model with small immigrations.",
    "abstract": "Species abundance distributions must reflect the dynamic processes involved in community assembly, but whether and when specific processes lead to distinguishable signals is not well understood. Biodiversity and species abundances may be shaped by a variety of influences, but particular attention has been paid to competition, which can involve neutral dynamics, where competitor abundances are governed only by demographic stochasticity and immigration, and dynamics driven by trait differences that enable stable coexistence through the formation of niches. Key recent studies of the species abundance patterns of communities with niches employ simple models with pre-imposed niche structure. These studies suggest that species abundance distributions are insensitive to the relative contributions of niche and neutral processes, especially when diversity is much higher than the number of niches. Here we analyze results from a stochastic population model with competition driven by trait differences. With this model, niche structure emerges as clumps of species that persist along the trait axis, and leads to more substantial differences from neutral species abundance distributions than have been previously shown. We show that heterogeneity in \"between-niche\" interaction strength (i.e., in the strength of competition between species in different niches) plays the dominant role in shaping the species abundances along the trait axis, acting as a biotic filter favoring species at the centers of niches. Furthermore, we show that heterogeneity in \"within-niche\" interactions (i.e., in the competition between species in the same niche) counteracts the influence of heterogeneity in \"between-niche\" interactions on the SAD to some degree. Our results suggest that competitive interactions that produce niches can also influence the shapes of SADs.",
    "title": "Emergent niche structuring leads to increased differences from neutrality in species abundance distributions.",
    "abstract": "The maintenance of diverse life history strategies within and among species remains a fundamental question in ecology and evolutionary biology. By using a near-complete 16-year pedigree of 12,579 winter-run steelhead (",
    "title": "Life history variation is maintained by fitness trade-offs and negative frequency-dependent selection.",
    "abstract": "Multiple-scale mobility is ubiquitous in nature and has become instrumental for understanding and modeling animal foraging behavior. However, the impact of individual movements on the long-term stability of populations remains largely unexplored. We analyze deterministic and stochastic Lotka-Volterra systems, where mobile predators consume scarce resources (prey) confined in patches. In fragile systems (that is, those unfavorable to species coexistence), the predator species has a maximized abundance and is resilient to degraded prey conditions when individual mobility is multiple scaled. Within the L\u00e9vy flight model, highly superdiffusive foragers rarely encounter prey patches and go extinct, whereas normally diffusing foragers tend to proliferate within patches, causing extinctions by overexploitation. L\u00e9vy flights of intermediate index allow a sustainable balance between patch exploitation and regeneration over wide ranges of demographic rates. Our analytical and simulated results can explain field observations and suggest that scale-free random movements are an important mechanism by which entire populations adapt to scarcity in fragmented ecosystems.",
    "title": "L\u00e9vy flight movements prevent extinctions and maximize population abundances in fragile Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "The celebrated Lotka-Volterra (LV) model is vastly used to describe the simple competition between prey and predator populations. The stochastic LV model, for its turn, considers the competition among two similar prey and two similar predator populations, with each group being described by identical mathematical equations. However, each of these groups differs in stochastic fluctuations, which are interpreted as small variations in each species' specimens (Genetic Diversity and Phenotypic Expression Diversity) and environmental conditions. The relative statistical variation presented is inversely proportional to the square root of the amount of specimens in each population. The model begins with two prey and two predator groups and, after a transient time, is reduced to one element of each group, returning to the classic LV system. That is, the model ends in asymmetric states despite starting from an initial symmetric condition without population excess. Spontaneous population symmetry breaking without population excess was obtained using the stochastic method. For its turn, the deterministic method could be used to analyze such breaking by forcing a perturbative fluctuation or adding little excess to one population, but the stochastic method can simulate such break in symmetry naturally.",
    "title": "Spontaneous symmetry breaking of population: Stochastic Lotka-Volterra model for competition among two similar preys and predators.",
    "abstract": "We study the influence of a randomly switching reproduction-predation rate on the survival behavior of the nonspatial cyclic Lotka-Volterra model, also known as the zero-sum rock-paper-scissors game, used to metaphorically describe the cyclic competition between three species. In large and finite populations, demographic fluctuations (internal noise) drive two species to extinction in a finite time, while the species with the smallest reproduction-predation rate is the most likely to be the surviving one (law of the weakest). Here we model environmental (external) noise by assuming that the reproduction-predation rate of the strongest species (the fastest to reproduce and predate) in a given static environment randomly switches between two values corresponding to more and less favorable external conditions. We study the joint effect of environmental and demographic noise on the species survival probabilities and on the mean extinction time. In particular, we investigate whether the survival probabilities follow the law of the weakest and analyze their dependence on the external noise intensity and switching rate. Remarkably, when, on average, there is a finite number of switches prior to extinction, the survival probability of the predator of the species whose reaction rate switches typically varies nonmonotonically with the external noise intensity (with optimal survival about a critical noise strength). We also outline the relationship with the case where all reaction rates switch on markedly different time scales.",
    "title": "Survival behavior in the cyclic Lotka-Volterra model with a randomly switching reaction rate.",
    "abstract": "When food webs are exposed to species invasion, secondary extinction cascades may be set off. Although much work has gone into characterizing the structure of food webs, systematic predictions on their evolutionary dynamics are still scarce. Here we present a theoretical framework that predicts extinctions in terms of an alternating sequence of two basic processes: resource depletion by or competitive exclusion between consumers. We first propose a conceptual invasion extinction model (IEM) involving random fitness coefficients. We bolster this IEM by an analytical, recursive procedure for calculating idealized extinction cascades after any species addition and simulate the long-time evolution. Our procedure describes minimal food webs where each species interacts with only a single resource through the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations. For such food webs ex- tinction cascades are determined uniquely and the system always relaxes to a stable steady state. The dynamics and scale invariant species life time resemble the behavior of the IEM, and correctly predict an upper limit for trophic levels as observed in the field.",
    "title": "Theory of invasion extinction dynamics in minimal food webs.",
    "abstract": "The host immune response can often efficiently suppress a virus infection, which may lead to selection for immune-resistant viral variants within the host. For example, during HIV infection, an array of CTL immune response populations recognize specific epitopes (viral proteins) presented on the surface of infected cells to effectively mediate their killing. However HIV can rapidly evolve resistance to CTL attack at different epitopes, inducing a dynamic network of interacting viral and immune response variants. We consider models for the network of virus and immune response populations, consisting of Lotka-Volterra-like systems of ordinary differential equations. Stability of feasible equilibria and corresponding uniform persistence of distinct variants are characterized via a Lyapunov function. We specialize the model to a \"binary sequence\" setting, where for n epitopes there can be [Formula: see text] distinct viral variants mapped on a hypercube graph. The dynamics in several cases are analyzed and sharp polychotomies are derived characterizing persistent variants. In particular, we prove that if the viral fitness costs for gaining resistance to each epitope are equal, then the system of [Formula: see text] virus strains converges to a \"perfectly nested network\" with less than or equal to [Formula: see text] persistent virus strains. Overall, our results suggest that immunodominance, i.e. relative strength of immune response to an epitope, is the most important factor determining the persistent network structure.",
    "title": "Dynamics of virus and immune response in multi-epitope network.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we study antibiotic-induced C. difficile infection (CDI), caused by the toxin-producing C. difficile (CD), and implement clinically-inspired simulated treatments in a computational framework that synthesizes a generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) model with SIR modeling techniques. The gLV model uses parameters derived from an experimental mouse model, in which the mice are administered antibiotics and subsequently dosed with CD. We numerically identify which of the experimentally measured initial conditions are vulnerable to CD colonization, then formalize the notion of CD susceptibility analytically. We simulate fecal transplantation, a clinically successful treatment for CDI, and discover that both the transplant timing and transplant donor are relevant to the the efficacy of the treatment, a result which has clinical implications. We incorporate two nongeneric yet dangerous attributes of CD into the gLV model, sporulation and antibiotic-resistant mutation, and for each identify relevant SIR techniques that describe the desired attribute. Finally, we rely on the results of our framework to analyze an experimental study of fecal transplants in mice, and are able to explain observed experimental results, validate our simulated results, and suggest model-motivated experiments.",
    "title": "In silico analysis of antibiotic-induced Clostridium difficile infection: Remediation techniques and biological adaptations.",
    "abstract": "In population dynamics, the concept of structural stability has been used to quantify the tolerance of a system to environmental perturbations. Yet, measuring the structural stability of nonlinear dynamical systems remains a challenging task. Focusing on the classic Lotka-Volterra dynamics, because of the linearity of the functional response, it has been possible to measure the conditions compatible with a structurally stable system. However, the functional response of biological communities is not always well approximated by deterministic linear functions. Thus, it is unclear the extent to which this linear approach can be generalized to other population dynamics models. Here, we show that the same approach used to investigate the classic Lotka-Volterra dynamics, which is called the structural approach, can be applied to a much larger class of nonlinear models. This class covers a large number of nonlinear functional responses that have been intensively investigated both theoretically and experimentally. We also investigate the applicability of the structural approach to stochastic dynamical systems and we provide a measure of structural stability for finite populations. Overall, we show that the structural approach can provide reliable and tractable information about the qualitative behavior of many nonlinear dynamical systems.",
    "title": "Structural stability of nonlinear population dynamics.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we investigate the complex dynamics originated by a cross-diffusion-induced subharmonic destabilization of the fundamental subcritical Turing mode in a predator-prey reaction-diffusion system. The model we consider consists of a two-species Lotka-Volterra system with linear diffusion and a nonlinear cross-diffusion term in the predator equation. The taxis term in the search strategy of the predator is responsible for the onset of complex dynamics. In fact, our model does not exhibit any Hopf or wave instability, and on the basis of the linear analysis one should only expect stationary patterns; nevertheless, the presence of the nonlinear cross-diffusion term is able to induce a secondary instability: due to a subharmonic spatial resonance, the stationary primary branch bifurcates to an out-of-phase oscillating solution. Noticeably, the strong resonance between the harmonic and the subharmonic is able to generate the oscillating pattern albeit the subharmonic is below criticality. We show that, as the control parameter is varied, the oscillating solution (subT mode) can undergo a sequence of secondary instabilities, generating a transition toward chaotic dynamics. Finally, we investigate the emergence of subT-mode solutions on two-dimensional domains: when the fundamental mode describes a square pattern, subharmonic resonance originates oscillating square patterns. In the case of subcritical Turing hexagon solutions, the internal interactions with a subharmonic mode are able to generate the so-called \"twinkling-eyes\" pattern.",
    "title": "Cross-diffusion-induced subharmonic spatial resonances in a predator-prey system.",
    "abstract": "Classical Lotka-Volterra (LV) competition equation has shown that coexistence of competitive species is only possible when intraspecific competition is stronger than interspecific competition, i.e., the species inhibit their own growth more than the growth of the other species. Note that density effect is assumed to be linear in a classical LV equation. In contrast, in wild populations we can observed that mortality rate often increases when population density is very high, known as crowding effects. Under this perspective, the aggregation models of competitive species have been developed, adding the additional reduction in growth rates at high population densities. This study shows that the coexistence of a few species is promoted. However, an unsolved question is the coexistence of many competitive species often observed in natural communities. Here, we build an LV competition equation with a nonlinear crowding effect. Our results show that under a weak crowding effect, stable coexistence of many species becomes plausible, unlike the previous aggregation model. An analysis indicates that increased mortality rate under high density works as elevated intraspecific competition leading to the coexistence. This may be another mechanism for the coexistence of many competitive species leading high species diversity in nature.",
    "title": "Multi-species coexistence in Lotka-Volterra competitive systems with crowding effects.",
    "abstract": "Ecological diversity is ubiquitous despite the restrictions imposed by competitive exclusion and apparent competition. To explain the observed richness of species in a given habitat, food-web theory has explored nonlinear functional responses, self-interaction, or spatial structure and dispersal-model ingredients that have proven to promote stability and diversity. We return instead here to classical Lotka-Volterra equations, where species-species interaction is characterized by a simple product and spatial restrictions are ignored. We quantify how this idealization imposes constraints on coexistence and diversity for many species. To this end, we introduce the concept of free and controlled species and use this to demonstrate how stable food webs can be constructed by the sequential addition of species. The resulting food webs can reach dozens of species and generally yield nonrandom degree distributions in accordance with the constraints imposed through the assembly process. Our model thus serves as a formal starting point for the study of sustainable interaction patterns between species.",
    "title": "Existence and construction of large stable food webs.",
    "abstract": "In this study, we consider nonlinear interactions between components such as dark energy, dark matter, matter and radiation in the framework of the Friedman-Robertson-Walker space-time and propose a simple interaction model based on the time evolution of the densities of these components. By using this model we show that these interactions can be given by Lotka-Volterra type equations. We numerically solve these coupling equations and show that interaction dynamics between dark energy-dark matter-matter or dark energy-dark matter-matter-radiation has a strange attractor for 0\u2009>\u2009w ",
    "title": "Chaotic universe model.",
    "abstract": "Mapping the ecological networks of microbial communities is a necessary step toward understanding their assembly rules and predicting their temporal behavior. However, existing methods require assuming a particular population dynamics model, which is not known a priori. Moreover, those methods require fitting longitudinal abundance data, which are often not informative enough for reliable inference. To overcome these limitations, here we develop a new method based on steady-state abundance data. Our method can infer the network topology and inter-taxa interaction types without assuming any particular population dynamics model. Additionally, when the population dynamics is assumed to follow the classic Generalized Lotka-Volterra model, our method can infer the inter-taxa interaction strengths and intrinsic growth rates. We systematically validate our method using simulated data, and then apply it to four experimental data sets. Our method represents a key step towards reliable modeling of complex, real-world microbial communities, such as the human gut microbiota.",
    "title": "Mapping the ecological networks of microbial communities.",
    "abstract": "Abiraterone treats metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer by inhibiting CYP17A, an enzyme for testosterone auto-production. With standard dosing, evolution of resistance with treatment failure (radiographic progression) occurs at a median of ~16.5 months. We hypothesize time to progression (TTP) could be increased by integrating evolutionary dynamics into therapy. We developed an evolutionary game theory model using Lotka-Volterra equations with three competing cancer \"species\": androgen dependent, androgen producing, and androgen\u00a0independent. Simulations with standard abiraterone dosing demonstrate strong selection for androgen-independent cells and rapid treatment failure. Adaptive therapy, using patient-specific tumor dynamics to inform on/off treatment cycles, suppresses proliferation of androgen-independent cells and lowers cumulative drug dose. In a pilot clinical trial, 10 of 11 patients maintained stable oscillations of tumor burdens; median TTP is at least 27 months with reduced cumulative drug use of 47% of standard dosing. The outcomes show significant improvement over published studies and a contemporaneous population.",
    "title": "Integrating evolutionary dynamics into treatment of metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer.",
    "abstract": "This paper is concerned with invasion entire solutions of a monostable time periodic Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion system. We first give the asymptotic behaviors of time periodic traveling wave solutions at infinity by a dynamical approach coupled with the two-sided Laplace transform. According to these asymptotic behaviors, we then obtain some key estimates which are crucial for the construction of an appropriate pair of sub-super solutions. Finally, using the sub-super solutions method and comparison principle, we establish the existence of invasion entire solutions which behave as two periodic traveling fronts with different speeds propagating from both sides of x-axis. In other words, we formulate a new invasion way of the superior species to the inferior one in a time periodic environment.",
    "title": "Invasion entire solutions in a time periodic Lotka-Volterra competition system with diffusion.",
    "abstract": "We study the persistence and extinction of species in a simple food chain that is modelled by a Lotka-Volterra system with environmental stochasticity. There exist sharp results for deterministic Lotka-Volterra systems in the literature but few for their stochastic counterparts. The food chain we analyze consists of one prey and [Formula: see text] predators. The jth predator eats the [Formula: see text]th species and is eaten by the [Formula: see text]th predator; this way each species only interacts with at most two other species-the ones that are immediately above or below it in the trophic chain. We show that one can classify, based on an explicit quantity depending on the interaction coefficients of the system, which species go extinct and which converge to their unique invariant probability measure. Our work can be seen as a natural extension of the deterministic results of Gard and Hallam '79 to a stochastic setting. As one consequence we show that environmental stochasticity makes species more likely to go extinct. However, if the environmental fluctuations are small, persistence in the deterministic setting is preserved in the stochastic system. Our analysis also shows that the addition of a new apex predator makes, as expected, the different species more prone to extinction. Another novelty of our analysis is the fact that we can describe the behavior of the system when the noise is degenerate. This is relevant because of the possibility of strong correlations between the effects of the environment on the different species.",
    "title": "Stochastic Lotka-Volterra food chains.",
    "abstract": "In the framework of the generalized Lotka-Volterra model, solutions representing multispecies sequential competition can be predictable with high probability. In this paper, we show that it occurs because the corresponding \"heteroclinic channel\" forms part of an attractor. We prove that, generically, in an attracting heteroclinic network involving a finite number of hyperbolic and non-resonant saddle-equilibria whose linearization has only real eigenvalues, the connections corresponding to the most positive expanding eigenvalues form part of an attractor (observable in numerical simulations).",
    "title": "Attractors in complex networks.",
    "abstract": "The compositions of in-host microbial communities (microbiota) play a significant role in host health, and a better understanding of the microbiota's role in a host's transition from health to disease or vice versa could lead to novel medical treatments. One of the first steps toward this understanding is modeling interaction dynamics of the microbiota, which can be exceedingly challenging given the complexity of the dynamics and difficulties in collecting sufficient data. Methods such as principal differential analysis, dynamic flux estimation, and others have been developed to overcome these challenges. Despite their advantages, these methods are still vastly underutilized in fields such as mathematical biology, and one potential reason for this is their sophisticated implementation. While this paper focuses on applying principal differential analysis to microbiota data, we also provide comprehensive details regarding the derivation and numerics of this method and include a functional implementation for readers' benefit. For further validation of these methods, we demonstrate the feasibility of principal differential analysis using simulation studies and then apply the method to intestinal and vaginal microbiota data. In working with these data, we capture experimentally confirmed dynamics while also revealing potential new insights into the system dynamics.",
    "title": "Identification of microbiota dynamics using robust parameter estimation methods.",
    "abstract": "Migration is observed across many species. Several authors have studied ecological migration by applying cellular automaton (CA). In this paper, we present a directional migration model with desert on a one-dimensional lattice where a traffic CA model and a lattice Lotka-Volterra system are connected. Here predators correspond to locomotive animals while prey is immobile plants. Predators migrate between deserts and fertile lands repeatedly. Computer simulations reveal the two types of phase transition: coexistence of both species and prey dominance, which is caused by both benefit and cost of migration. In the coexistence phase, the steady-state density of predators usually increases by migration as long as the desert size is small and their mortality rate is low. In contrast, the prey density increases, even if the desert size becomes large. Such a paradox comes from the indirect effect: predators go extinct by the increase of desert size, so that the plant density can increase. Moreover, we find several self-organized spatial patterns: 1) predators form a stripe pattern; namely swarms. 2) The velocity of predators is high on deserts, but very low on fertile land. 3) Predators give birth only on fertile lands.",
    "title": "Effect of directional migration on Lotka-Volterra system with desert.",
    "abstract": "The relationship between the M-species stochastic Lotka-Volterra competition (SLVC) model and the M-allele Moran model of population genetics is explored via timescale separation arguments. When selection for species is weak and the population size is large but finite, precise conditions are determined for the stochastic dynamics of the SLVC model to be mappable to the neutral Moran model, the Moran model with frequency-independent selection, and the Moran model with frequency-dependent selection (equivalently a game-theoretic formulation of the Moran model). We demonstrate how these mappings can be used to calculate extinction probabilities and the times until a species' extinction in the SLVC model.",
    "title": "Mapping of the stochastic Lotka-Volterra model to models of population genetics and game theory.",
    "abstract": "We report from two variants of a figure-ground experiment that is known in the literature to involve a bistable perceptual domain. The first variant was conducted as a two-alternative forced-choice experiment and in doing so tested participants on a categorical measurement scale. The second variant involved a Likert scale measure that was considered to represent a continuous measurement scale. The two variants were conducted as a single within-subjects experiment. Measures of bistability operationalized in terms of hysteresis size scores showed significant positive correlations across the two response conditions. The experimental findings are consistent with a dualistic interpretation of self-organizing perceptual systems when they are described on a macrolevel by means of so-called amplitude equations. This is explicitly demonstrated for a Lotka-Volterra-Haken amplitude equation model of task-related brain activity. As a by-product, the proposed dynamical systems perspective also sheds new light on the anchoring problem of producing numerical, continuous judgments.",
    "title": "Correlations Between Hysteretic Categorical and Continuous Judgments of Perceptual Stimuli Supporting a Unified Dynamical Systems Approach to Perception.",
    "abstract": "Understanding overfishing and regulating fishing quotas is a major global challenge for the 21st Century both in terms of providing food for humankind and to preserve the oceans' ecosystems. However, fishing is a complex economic activity, affected not just by overfishing but also by such factors as pollution, technology, financial factors and more. For this reason, it is often difficult to state with complete certainty that overfishing is the cause of the decline of a fishery. In this study, we developed a simple dynamic model specifically designed to isolate and to study the role of depletion on production. The model is based on the well-known Lotka-Volterra model, or Prey-Predator mechanism, assuming that the fish stock and the fishing industry are coupled variables that dynamically affect each other. In the model, the fishing industry acts as the \"predator\" and the fish stock as the \"prey\". If the model can fit historical data, in particular relative to the productive decline of specific fisheries, then we have a strong indication that the decline of the fish stock is driving the decline of the fishery production. The model doesn't pretend to be a general description of the fishing industry in all its varied forms; however, the data reported here show that the model can describe several historical cases of fisheries whose production decreased and collapsed, indicating that the overexploitation of the fish stocks is an important factor in the decline of fisheries.",
    "title": "Dynamic patterns of overexploitation in fisheries.",
    "abstract": "In ecological communities consumers (excluding parasites and parasitoids) are in general larger and less numerous than their resource. This results in a well-known observation known as 'Eltonian pyramids' or the 'pyramid of numbers', and metabolic arguments suggest that this pattern is independent of the number of trophic levels in a system. At the same time, Lotka-Volterra (LV) consumer-resource models are a frequently used tool to study many questions in community ecology, but their capacity to produce Eltonian pyramids has not been formally analysed. Here, I address this knowledge gap by investigating if and when LV food chain models give rise to Eltonian pyramids. I show that Eltonian pyramids are difficult to reproduce without density-dependent mortality in the consumers, unless biologically plausible relationships between mortality rate and interaction strength are taken into account.",
    "title": "Conditions for Eltonian Pyramids in Lotka-Volterra Food Chains.",
    "abstract": "The spread of an invasive species often results in a decline and subsequent disappearance of native competitors. Several models, primarily based on spatially explicit Lotka-Volterra competition dynamics, have been developed to understand this phenomenon. In general, the goal of these models is to relate fundamental life history traits, for example dispersal ability and competition strength, to the rate of spread of the invasive species, which is also the rate at which the invasive species displaces its native competitor. Stage-structure is often an important determinant of population dynamics, but it has received little attention within the context of Lotka-Volterra invasion models. For many species, behaviors like dispersal and competition depend on life-stage. To describe the processes of invasion in these species, it is important to understand how behaviors that vary as a function of life-stage can impact spread rate. In this paper, we develop a spatially explicit, stage-structured Lotka-Volterra competition model. By comparing spread speed predictions from this model to spread speed predictions from an analogous single-stage model, we are able to determine when stage-structure is important and how stage-dependent behavior can alter the characteristics of an invasion.",
    "title": "Invasion dynamics of competing species with stage-structure.",
    "abstract": "A new approach is presented for simulating the time-evolution of chemically reactive systems. This method provides an alternative to conventional modeling of mass-action kinetics that involves solving differential equations for the species concentrations. The method presented here avoids the need to solve the rate equations by switching to a representation based on chemical pathways. In the Sum Over Histories Representation (or SOHR) method, any time-dependent kinetic observable, such as concentration, is written as a linear combination of probabilities for chemical pathways leading to a desired outcome. In this work, an iterative method is introduced that allows the time-dependent pathway probabilities to be generated from a knowledge of the elementary rate coefficients, thus avoiding the pitfalls involved in solving the differential equations of kinetics. The method is successfully applied to the model Lotka-Volterra system and to a realistic H",
    "title": "Simulating Chemical Kinetics Without Differential Equations: A Quantitative Theory Based on Chemical Pathways.",
    "abstract": "The contribution of plant species richness to productivity and ecosystem functioning is a longstanding issue in ecology, with relevant implications for both conservation and agriculture. Both experiments and quantitative modeling are fundamental to the design of sustainable agroecosystems and the optimization of crop production. We modeled communities of perennial crop mixtures by using a generalized Lotka-Volterra model, i.e., a model such that the interspecific interactions are more general than purely competitive. We estimated model parameters -carrying capacities and interaction coefficients- from, respectively, the observed biomass of monocultures and bicultures measured in a large diversity experiment of seven perennial forage species in Iowa, United States. The sign and absolute value of the interaction coefficients showed that the biological interactions between species pairs included amensalism, competition, and parasitism (asymmetric positive-negative interaction), with various degrees of intensity. We tested the model fit by simulating the combinations of more than two species and comparing them with the polycultures experimental data. Overall, theoretical predictions are in good agreement with the experiments. Using this model, we also simulated species combinations that were not sown. From all possible mixtures (sown and not sown) we identified which are the most productive species combinations. Our results demonstrate that a combination of experiments and modeling can contribute to the design of sustainable agricultural systems in general and to the optimization of crop production in particular.",
    "title": "Modeling plant interspecific interactions from experiments with perennial crop mixtures to predict optimal combinations.",
    "abstract": "There are many species living in symbiotic communities. In this study, we analyzed models in which populations are in the mutualism symbiotic relations subject to a disease spreading among one of the species. The main goal is the characterization of symbiotic relations of coexisting species through their mutual influences on their respective carrying capacities, taking into account that this influence can be quite strong. The functional dependence of the carrying capacities reflects the fact that the correlations between populations cannot be realized merely through direct interactions, as in the usual predator-prey Lotka-Volterra model, but also through the influence of each species on the carrying capacities of the other one. Equilibria are analyzed for feasibility and stability, substantiated via numerical simulations, and global sensitivity analysis identifies the important parameters having a significant impact on the model dynamics. The infective growth rate and the disease-related mortality rate may alter the stability behavior of the system. Our results show that introducing a symbiotic species is a plausible way to control the disease in the population.",
    "title": "Effect of diseases on symbiotic systems.",
    "abstract": "Recently, a theoretical framework aimed at separating the roles of dynamics and topology in multidimensional systems has been developed [Gao et al., Nature (London) 530, 307 (2016)10.1038/nature16948]. The validity of their method is assumed to hold depending on two main hypotheses: (i) The network determined by the the interaction between pairs of nodes has negligible degree correlations; (ii) the node activities are uniform across nodes on both the drift and the pairwise interaction functions. Moreover, the authors consider only positive (mutualistic) interactions. Here we show the conditions proposed by Gao and collaborators [Nature\u00a0(London) 530, 307 (2016)10.1038/nature16948] are neither sufficient nor necessary to guarantee that their method works in general and validity of their results are not independent of the model chosen within the class of dynamics they considered. Indeed we find that a new condition poses effective limitations to their framework and we provide quantitative predictions of the quality of the one-dimensional collapse as a function of the properties of interaction networks and stable dynamics using results from random matrix theory. We also find that multidimensional reduction may work also for an interaction matrix with a mixture of positive and negative signs, opening up an application of the framework to food webs, neuronal networks, and social and economic interactions.",
    "title": "Collapse of resilience patterns in generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamics and beyond.",
    "abstract": "This work is devoted to studying the dynamics of a structured population that is subject to the combined effects of environmental stochasticity, competition for resources, spatio-temporal heterogeneity and dispersal. The population is spread throughout n patches whose population abundances are modeled as the solutions of a system of nonlinear stochastic differential equations living on [Formula: see text]. We prove that r, the stochastic growth rate of the total population in the absence of competition, determines the long-term behaviour of the population. The parameter r can be expressed as the Lyapunov exponent of an associated linearized system of stochastic differential equations. Detailed analysis shows that if [Formula: see text], the population abundances converge polynomially fast to a unique invariant probability measure on [Formula: see text], while when [Formula: see text], the population abundances of the patches converge almost surely to 0 exponentially fast. This generalizes and extends the results of Evans et al. (J Math Biol 66(3):423-476, 2013) and proves one of their conjectures. Compared to recent developments, our model incorporates very general density-dependent growth rates and competition terms. Furthermore, we prove that persistence is robust to small, possibly density dependent, perturbations of the growth rates, dispersal matrix and covariance matrix of the environmental noise. We also show that the stochastic growth rate depends continuously on the coefficients. Our work allows the environmental noise driving our system to be degenerate. This is relevant from a biological point of view since, for example, the environments of the different patches can be perfectly correlated. We show how one can adapt the nondegenerate results to the degenerate setting. As an example we fully analyze the two-patch case, [Formula: see text], and show that the stochastic growth rate is a decreasing function of the dispersion rate. In particular, coupling two sink patches can never yield persistence, in contrast to the results from the non-degenerate setting treated by Evans et al. which show that sometimes coupling by dispersal can make the system persistent.",
    "title": "Stochastic population growth in spatially heterogeneous environments: the density-dependent case.",
    "abstract": "The paper is aimed at the methodological development of ecological monitoring in discrete-time dynamic models. In earlier papers, in the framework of continuous-time models, we have shown how a systems-theoretical methodology can be applied to the monitoring of the state process of a system of interacting populations, also estimating certain abiotic environmental changes such as pollution, climatic or seasonal changes. In practice, however, there may be good reasons to use discrete-time models. (For instance, there may be discrete cycles in the development of the populations, or observations can be made only at discrete time steps.) Therefore the present paper is devoted to the development of the monitoring methodology in the framework of discrete-time models of population ecology. By monitoring we mean that, observing only certain component(s) of the system, we reconstruct the whole state process. This may be necessary, e.g., when in a complex ecosystem the observation of the densities of certain species is impossible, or too expensive. For the first presentation of the offered methodology, we have chosen a discrete-time version of the classical Lotka-Volterra prey-predator model. This is a minimal but not trivial system where the methodology can still be presented. We also show how this methodology can be applied to estimate the effect of an abiotic environmental change, using a component of the population system as an environmental indicator. Although this approach is illustrated in a simplest possible case, it can be easily extended to larger ecosystems with several interacting populations and different types of abiotic environmental effects.",
    "title": "Ecological monitoring in a discrete-time prey-predator model.",
    "abstract": "Ecological communities in heterogeneous environments assemble through the combined effect of species interaction and migration. Understanding the effect of these processes on the community properties is central to ecology. Here we study these processes for a single community subject to migration from a pool of species, with population dynamics described by the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations. We derive exact results for the phase diagram describing the dynamical behaviors, and for the diversity and species abundance distributions. A phase transition is found from a phase where a unique globally attractive fixed point exists to a phase where multiple dynamical attractors exist, leading to history-dependent community properties. The model is shown to possess a symmetry that also establishes a connection with other well-known models.",
    "title": "Ecological communities with Lotka-Volterra dynamics.",
    "abstract": "A central question in the study of ecology and evolution is: \"Why are there so many species?\" It has been shown that certain forms of the Lotka-Volterra (L-V) competition equations lead to an unlimited number of species. Furthermore, these authors note how any change in the nature of competition (the competition kernel) leads to a finite or small number of coexisting species. Here we build upon these works by further investigating the L-V model of unlimited niche packing as a reference model and evolutionary game for understanding the environmental factors restricting biodiversity. We also examine the combined eco-evolutionary dynamics leading up to the species diversity and traits of the ESS community in both unlimited and finite niche-packing versions of the model. As an L-V game with symmetric competition, we let the strategies of individuals determine the strength of the competitive interaction (like competes most with like) and also the carrying capacity of the population. We use a mixture of analytic proofs (for one and two species systems) and numerical simulations. For the model of unlimited niche packing, we show that a finite number of species will evolve to specific convergent stable minima of the adaptive landscape (also known as species archetypes). Starting with a single species, faunal buildup can proceed either through species doubling as each diversity-specific set of minima are reached, or through the addition of species one-by-one by randomly assigning a speciation event to one of the species. Either way it is possible for an unlimited number or species to evolve and coexist. We examine two simple and biologically likely ways for breaking the unlimited niche-packing: (1) some minimum level of competition among species, and (2) constrain the fundamental niche of the trait space to a finite interval. When examined under both ecological and evolutionary dynamics, both modifications result in convergent stable ESSs with a finite number of species. When the number of species is held below the number of species in an ESS coalition, we see a diverse array of convergent stable niche archetypes that consist of some species at maxima and some at minima of the adaptive landscape. Our results support those of others and suggest that instead of focusing on why there are so many species we might just as usefully ask, why are there so few species?",
    "title": "Unlimited niche packing in a Lotka-Volterra competition game.",
    "abstract": "We study the effect of changes in flow speed on competition of an arbitrary number of species living in advective environments, such as streams and rivers. We begin with a spatial Lotka-Volterra model which is described by n reaction-diffusion-advection equations with Danckwerts boundary conditions. Using the dominant eigenvalue [Formula: see text] of the diffusion-advection operator subject to boundary conditions, we reduce the model to a system of ordinary differential equations. We impose a \"transitive arrangement\" of the competitors in terms of their interspecific coefficients and growth rates, which means that in the absence of advection, we have the following situation: for all [Formula: see text], species i out-competes species j, while species j has higher intrinsic growth rate than species i. Changing advection speed in the original spatial model corresponds to changing the value of [Formula: see text] in the spatially implicit model. Considering the cases of the odd and even n separately, we obtain explicit intervals of the values of [Formula: see text] that allow all n species to be present in the habitat (coexistence interval). Stability of this equilibrium is shown for [Formula: see text].",
    "title": "Competition of Multiple Species in Advective Environments.",
    "abstract": "The concerted activity of intestinal microbes is crucial to the health and development of their host organisms. Investigation of microbial interactions in the gut should deepen our understanding of how these micro-ecosystems function. Due to advances in Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, various bioinformatic strategies have been proposed to investigate these microbial interactions. However, due to the complexity of the intestinal microbial community and difficulties in monitoring their interactions, at present there is a gap between the theory and biological application. In order to construct and validate microbial relationships, we first induce a community shift from simple to complex by manipulating artificial hibernation (AH) in the treefrog ",
    "title": "Inferring Microbial Interactions in the Gut of the Hong Kong Whipping Frog (",
    "abstract": "We consider a cyclically competing species model on a ring with global mixing at finite rate, which corresponds to the well-known Lotka-Volterra equation in the limit of infinite mixing rate. Within a perturbation analysis of the model from the infinite mixing rate, we provide analytical evidence that extinction occurs deterministically at sufficiently large but finite values of the mixing rate for any species number N\u22653. Further, by focusing on the cases of rather small species numbers, we discuss numerical results concerning the trajectories toward such deterministic extinction, including global bifurcations caused by changing the mixing rate.",
    "title": "Deterministic extinction by mixing in cyclically competing species.",
    "abstract": "In a (2016) paper in this journal, I defuse allegations that theoretical ecological research is problematic because it relies on teleological metaphysical assumptions. Mark Sagoff offers a formal reply. In it, he concedes that I succeeded in establishing that ecologists abandoned robust teleological views long ago and that they use teleological characterizations as metaphors that aid in developing mechanistic explanations of ecological phenomena. Yet, he contends that I did not give enduring criticisms of theoretical ecology a fair shake in my paper. He says this is because enduring criticisms center on concerns about the nature of ecological networks and forces, the instrumentality of ecological laws and theoretical models, and the relation between theoretical and empirical methods in ecology that that paper does not broach. Below I set apart the distinct criticisms Sagoff presents in his commentary and respond to each in turn.",
    "title": "Differentiating and defusing theoretical Ecology's criticisms: A rejoinder to Sagoff's reply to Donhauser (2016).",
    "abstract": "Inferring the microbial interaction networks (MINs) and modeling their dynamics are critical in understanding the mechanisms of the bacterial ecosystem and designing antibiotic and/or probiotic therapies. Recently, several approaches were proposed to infer MINs using the generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) model. Main drawbacks of these models include the fact that these models only consider the measurement noise without taking into consideration the uncertainties in the underlying dynamics. Furthermore, inferring the MIN is characterized by the limited number of observations and nonlinearity in the regulatory mechanisms. Therefore, novel estimation techniques are needed to address these challenges.\nThis work proposes SgLV-EKF: a stochastic gLV model that adopts the extended Kalman filter (EKF) algorithm to model the MIN dynamics. In particular, SgLV-EKF employs a stochastic modeling of the MIN by adding a noise term to the dynamical model to compensate for modeling uncertainties. This stochastic modeling is more realistic than the conventional gLV model which assumes that the MIN dynamics are perfectly governed by the gLV equations. After specifying the stochastic model structure, we propose the EKF to estimate the MIN. SgLV-EKF was compared with two similarity-based algorithms, one algorithm from the integral-based family and two regression-based algorithms, in terms of the achieved performance on two synthetic data-sets and two real data-sets. The first data-set models the randomness in measurement data, whereas, the second data-set incorporates uncertainties in the underlying dynamics. The real data-sets are provided by a recent study pertaining to an antibiotic-mediated Clostridium difficile infection. The experimental results demonstrate that SgLV-EKF outperforms the alternative methods in terms of robustness to measurement noise, modeling errors, and tracking the dynamics of the MIN.\nPerformance analysis demonstrates that the proposed SgLV-EKF algorithm represents a powerful and reliable tool to infer MINs and track their dynamics.",
    "title": "Inferring microbial interaction networks from metagenomic data using SgLV-EKF algorithm.",
    "abstract": "Pairwise models are commonly used to describe many-species communities. In these models, an individual receives additive fitness effects from pairwise interactions with each species in the community ('additivity assumption'). All pairwise interactions are typically represented by a single equation where parameters reflect signs and strengths of fitness effects ('universality assumption'). Here, we show that a single equation fails to qualitatively capture diverse pairwise microbial interactions. We build mechanistic reference models for two microbial species engaging in commonly-found chemical-mediated interactions, and attempt to derive pairwise models. Different equations are appropriate depending on whether a mediator is consumable or reusable, whether an interaction is mediated by one or more mediators, and sometimes even on quantitative details of the community (e.g. relative fitness of the two species, initial conditions). Our results, combined with potential violation of the additivity assumption in many-species communities, suggest that pairwise modeling will often fail to predict microbial dynamics.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra pairwise modeling fails to capture diverse pairwise microbial interactions.",
    "abstract": "We focus on the long-term dynamics of \"killing the winner\" Lotka-Volterra models of marine communities consisting of bacteria, virus, and zooplankton. Under suitable conditions, it is shown that there is a unique equilibrium with all populations present which is stable, the system is permanent, and the limiting behavior of its solutions is strongly constrained.",
    "title": "Permanence and Stability of a Kill the Winner Model in Marine Ecology.",
    "abstract": "Animal movement is a key mechanism for shaping population dynamics. The effect of interactions between competing animals on a population's survival has been studied for many decades. However, interactions also affect an animal's subsequent movement decisions. Despite this, the indirect effect of these decisions on animal survival is much less well-understood. Here, we incorporate movement responses to foreign animals into a model of two competing populations, where inter-specific competition is greater than intra-specific competition. When movement is diffusive, the travelling wave moves from the stronger population to the weaker. However, by incorporating behaviourally induced directed movement towards the stronger population, the weaker one can slow the travelling wave down, even reversing its direction. Hence movement responses can switch the predictions of traditional mechanistic models. Furthermore, when environmental heterogeneity is combined with aggressive movement strategies, it is possible for spatially segregated co-existence to emerge. In this situation, the spatial patterns of the competing populations have the unusual feature that they are slightly out-of-phase with the environmental patterns. Finally, incorporating dynamic movement responses can also enable stable co-existence in a homogeneous environment, giving a new mechanism for spatially segregated co-existence.",
    "title": "Fortune favours the brave: Movement responses shape demographic dynamics in strongly competing populations.",
    "abstract": "An idea for evaluating transition probabilities in chemical reaction systems is proposed, which is efficient for repeated calculations with various rate constants. The idea is based on duality relations; instead of direct time evolutions of the original reaction system, the dual process is dealt with. Usually, if one changes rate constants of the original reaction system, the direct time evolutions should be performed again, using the new rate constants. On the other hands, only one solution of an extended dual process can be reused to calculate the transition probabilities for various rate constant cases. The idea is demonstrated in a parameter estimation problem for the Lotka-Volterra system.",
    "title": "Duality-based calculations for transition probabilities in stochastic chemical reactions.",
    "abstract": "",
    "title": "Energetic Constraints Produce Self-sustained Oscillatory Dynamics in Neuronal Networks.",
    "abstract": "One way to explore assembly of extant and novel communities from species pools, and by that biodiversity and species ranges, is to study the equilibrium behavior of dynamic competition models such as the Lotka-Volterra competition (LVC) model. We present a novel method (COMMUSTIX) to determine all stable fixpoints of the general LVC model with abundances x from a given pool of n species. To that purpose, we split the species in potentially surviving species (x",
    "title": "Finding all multiple stable fixpoints of n-species Lotka-Volterra competition models.",
    "abstract": "The gut microbiome is a dynamic system that changes with host development, health, behavior, diet, and microbe-microbe interactions. Prior work on gut microbial time series has largely focused on autoregressive models (e.g. Lotka-Volterra). However, we show that most of the variance in microbial time series is non-autoregressive. In addition, we show how community state-clustering is flawed when it comes to characterizing within-host dynamics and that more continuous methods are required. Most organisms exhibited stable, mean-reverting behavior suggestive of fixed carrying capacities and abundant taxa were largely shared across individuals. This mean-reverting behavior allowed us to apply sparse vector autoregression (sVAR)-a multivariate method developed for econometrics-to model the autoregressive component of gut community dynamics. We find a strong phylogenetic signal in the non-autoregressive co-variance from our sVAR model residuals, which suggests niche filtering. We show how changes in diet are also non-autoregressive and that Operational Taxonomic Units strongly correlated with dietary variables have much less of an autoregressive component to their variance, which suggests that diet is a major driver of microbial dynamics. Autoregressive variance appears to be driven by multi-day recovery from frequent facultative anaerobe blooms, which may be driven by fluctuations in luminal redox. Overall, we identify two dynamic regimes within the human gut microbiota: one likely driven by external environmental fluctuations, and the other by internal processes.",
    "title": "Two dynamic regimes in the human gut microbiome.",
    "abstract": "The performance of a room temperature, zero-field MASER operating at 1.45\u2009GHz has been examined. Nanosecond laser pulses, which are essentially instantaneous on the timescale of the spin dynamics, allow the visible-to-microwave conversion efficiency and temporal response of the MASER to be measured as a function of excitation energy. It is observed that the timing and amplitude of the MASER output pulse are correlated with the laser excitation energy: at higher laser energy, the microwave pulses have larger amplitude and appear after shorter delay than those recorded at lower laser energy. Seeding experiments demonstrate that the output variation may be stabilized by an external source and establish the minimum seeding power required. The dynamics of the MASER emission may be modeled by a pair of first order, non-linear differential equations, derived from the Lotka-Volterra model (Predator-Prey), where by the microwave mode of the resonator is the predator and the spin polarization in the triplet state of pentacene is the prey. Simulations allowed the Einstein coefficient of stimulated emission, the spin-lattice relaxation and the number of triplets contributing to the MASER emission to be estimated. These are essential parameters for the rational improvement of a MASER based on a spin-polarized triplet molecule.",
    "title": "Nanosecond time-resolved characterization of a pentacene-based room-temperature MASER.",
    "abstract": "Glycaspis brimblecombei Moore (Hemiptera: Aphalaridae) is an invasive psyllid introduced into the Mediterranean area, where it affects several species of Eucalyptus. Psyllaephagus bliteus Riek (Hymenoptera: Encyrtidae) is a specialized parasitoid of this psyllid that was accidentally introduced into Italy in 2011. We developed a model of this host-parasitoid system that accounts for the influence of environmental conditions on the G. brimblecombei population dynamics and P. bliteus parasitism rates in the natural ecosystem. The Lotka-Volterra-based model predicts non-constant host growth and parasitoid mortality rates in association with variation in environmental conditions. The model was tested by analyzing sampling data collected in Naples in 2011 (before the parasitoid was present) and defining several environmental patterns, termed Temperature-Rain or T-R patterns, which correspond to the host growth rate. A mean value of the host growth rate was assigned to each T-R pattern, as well as a variation of the parasitoid mortality rate based on temperature thresholds. The proposed model was applied in simulation tests related to T-R patterns carried out with a data series sampled between June 2014 and July 2015 in five Italian sites located in Campania, Lazio, Sicily, and Sardinia regions. The simulation results showed that the proposed model provides an accurate approximation of population trends, although oscillation details may not be apparent. Results predict a 64% reduction in G. brimblecombei population density owing to P. bliteus parasitoid activity. Our results are discussed with respect to features of the host-parasitoid interaction that could be exploited in future biological control programs.",
    "title": "Modeling Environmental Influences in the Psyllaephagus bliteus (Hymenoptera: Encyrtidae)-Glycaspis brimblecombei (Hemiptera: Aphalaridae) Parasitoid-Host System.",
    "abstract": "Determinants of species diversity in microbial ecosystems remain poorly understood. Bacteriophages are believed to increase the diversity by the virtue of Kill-the-Winner infection bias preventing the fastest growing organism from taking over the community. Phage-bacterial ecosystems are traditionally described in terms of the static equilibrium state of Lotka-Volterra equations in which bacterial growth is exactly balanced by losses due to phage predation. Here we consider a more dynamic scenario in which phage infections give rise to abrupt and severe collapses of bacterial populations whenever they become sufficiently large. As a consequence, each bacterial population in our model follows cyclic dynamics of exponential growth interrupted by sudden declines. The total population of all species fluctuates around the carrying capacity of the environment, making these cycles cryptic. While a subset of the slowest growing species in our model is always driven towards extinction, in general the overall ecosystem diversity remains high. The number of surviving species is inversely proportional to the variation in their growth rates but increases with the frequency and severity of phage-induced collapses. Thus counter-intuitively we predict that microbial communities exposed to more violent perturbations should have higher diversity.",
    "title": "Population cycles and species diversity in dynamic Kill-the-Winner model of microbial ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "Predation is a major cause of early-stage mortality for prey individuals, which are often forced to use refuges in order to reduce the risk of being consumed. The ability of certain genotypes in a prey population to reach a size refuge from predation may contribute significantly to the preservation of community diversity. We investigate how the specificity of this behavior affects the evolution of a given population by using a modified Lotka-Volterra model, in which the proportion of each genotype available for predation consists of two components: an intrinsic part and a combination from all genotypes present in the population. The trade-off of these components is characterized by a specificity parameter. From the viewpoint of population dynamics, we observe that the ability of the mutant to invade the resident population strongly depends on the values of this parameter. Finally, we describe the possible evolutionary outcomes, analytically and numerically.",
    "title": "Effects of size refuge specificity on a predator-prey model.",
    "abstract": "Invasive species are a serious threat to biodiversity worldwide and predicting whether an introduced species will first establish and then become invasive can be useful to preserve ecosystem services. Establishment is influenced by multiple factors, such as the interactions between the introduced individuals and the resident community, and demographic and environmental stochasticity. Field observations are often incomplete or biased. This, together with an imperfect knowledge of the ecological traits of the introduced species, makes the prediction of establishment challenging. Methods that consider the combined effects of these factors on our ability to predict the establishment of an introduced species are currently lacking. We develop an inference framework to assess the combined effects of demographic stochasticity and parameter uncertainty on our ability to predict the probability of establishment following the introduction of a small number of individuals. We find that even moderate levels of demographic stochasticity influence both the probability of establishment, and, crucially, our ability to correctly predict that probability. We also find that estimation of the demographic parameters of an introduced species is fundamental to obtain precise estimates of the interaction parameters. For typical values of demographic stochasticity, the drop in our ability to predict an establishment can be 30% when having priors on the demographic parameters compared to having their accurate values. The results from our study illustrate how demographic stochasticity may bias the prediction of the probability of establishment. Our method can be applied to estimate probability of establishment of introduced species in field scenarios, where time series data and prior information on the demographic traits of the introduced species are available.",
    "title": "The effects of demographic stochasticity and parameter uncertainty on predicting the establishment of introduced species.",
    "abstract": "The complexity and dynamics of microbial communities are major factors in the ecology of a system. With the NGS technique, metagenomics data provides a new way to explore microbial interactions. Lotka-Volterra models, which have been widely used to infer animal interactions in dynamic systems, have recently been applied to the analysis of metagenomic data.\nIn this paper, we present the Lotka-Volterra model based tool, the Metagenomic Microbial Interacticon Simulator (MetaMIS), which is designed to analyze the time series data of microbial community profiles. MetaMIS first infers underlying microbial interactions from abundance tables for operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and then interprets interaction networks using the Lotka-Volterra model. We also embed a Bray-Curtis dissimilarity method in MetaMIS in order to evaluate the similarity to biological reality. MetaMIS is designed to tolerate a high level of missing data, and can estimate interaction information without the influence of rare microbes. For each interaction network, MetaMIS systematically examines interaction patterns (such as mutualism or competition) and refines the biotic role within microbes. As a case study, we collect a human male fecal microbiome and show that Micrococcaceae, a relatively low abundance OTU, is highly connected with 13 dominant OTUs and seems to play a critical role. MetaMIS is able to organize multiple interaction networks into a consensus network for comparative studies; thus we as a case study have also identified a consensus interaction network between female and male fecal microbiomes.\nMetaMIS provides an efficient and user-friendly platform that may reveal new insights into metagenomics data. MetaMIS is freely available at: https://sourceforge.net/projects/metamis/ .",
    "title": "MetaMIS: a metagenomic microbial interaction simulator based on microbial community profiles.",
    "abstract": "Generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) equations are important equations used in various areas of science to describe competitive dynamics among a population of N interacting nodes in a network topology. In this Letter, we introduce a photonic network consisting of three optoelectronically cross-coupled semiconductor lasers to realize a GLV model. In such a network, the interaction of intensity and carrier inversion rates, as well as phases of laser oscillator nodes, result in various dynamics. We study the influence of asymmetric coupling strength and frequency detuning between semiconductor lasers and show that inhibitory asymmetric coupling is required to achieve consecutive amplitude oscillations of the laser nodes. These studies were motivated primarily by the dynamical models used to model brain cognitive activities and their correspondence with dynamics obtained among coupled laser oscillators.",
    "title": "Heteroclinic dynamics of coupled semiconductor lasers with optoelectronic feedback.",
    "abstract": "Horizontal transfer (HT) of heritable information or 'traits' (carried by genetic elements, plasmids, endosymbionts, or culture) is widespread among living organisms. Yet current ecological and evolutionary theory addressing HT is scant. We present a modeling framework for the dynamics of two populations that compete for resources and horizontally exchange (transfer) an otherwise vertically inherited trait. Competition influences individual demographics, thereby affecting population size, which feeds back on the dynamics of transfer. This feedback is captured in a stochastic individual-based model, from which we derive a general model for the contact rate, with frequency-dependent (FD) and density-dependent (DD) rates as special cases. Taking a large-population limit on the stochastic individual-level model yields a deterministic Lotka-Volterra competition system with additional terms accounting for HT. The stability analysis of this system shows that HT can revert the direction of selection: HT can drive invasion of a deleterious trait, or prevent invasion of an advantageous trait. Due to HT, invasion does not necessarily imply fixation. Two trait values may coexist in a stable polymorphism even if their invasion fitnesses have opposite signs, or both are negative. Addressing the question of how the stochasticity of individual processes influences population fluctuations, we identify conditions on competition and mode of transfer (FD versus DD) under which the stochasticity of transfer events overwhelms demographic stochasticity. Assuming that one trait is initially rare, we derive invasion and fixation probabilities and time. In the case of costly plasmids, which are transfered unilaterally, invasion is always possible if the transfer rate is large enough; under DD and for intermediate values of the transfer rate, maintenance of the plasmid in a polymorphic population is possible. In conclusion, HT interacts with ecology (competition) in non-trivial ways. Our model provides a basis to model the influence of HT on evolutionary adaptation.",
    "title": "The effect of competition and horizontal trait inheritance on invasion, fixation, and polymorphism.",
    "abstract": "Memory allows organisms to forecast the future on the basis of experience, and thus, in some form, is important for the development of flexible adaptive behavior by animal communities. To model memory, we use the concept of hysteresis, which mathematically is described by the Preisach operator. As a case study, we consider anti-predator adaptation in the classic Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model. Despite its simplicity, the model allows us to naturally incorporate essential features of an adaptive system and memory. Our analysis and simulations show that a system with memory can have a continuum of equilibrium states with non-trivial stability properties. The main factor that determines the actual equilibrium state to which a trajectory converges is the maximal number achieved by the population of predator along this trajectory.",
    "title": "Memory and adaptive behavior in population dynamics: anti-predator behavior as a case study.",
    "abstract": "This article is a first application of an integrable nonautonomous Lotka-Volterra (LV) model to the study of tourism dynamics. In particular, we analyze the interaction in terms of touristic flows among three Italian regions. Confirming an hypothesis advanced by recent theoretical works, we find that these regions not only compete against each other, but at times they also proceed in mutualism. Moreover, the kind and the intensity of the interaction changes over time, suggesting that dynamic models can play a vital role in the study of touristic flows.",
    "title": "A Study of Tourism Dynamics in Three Italian Regions Using a Nonautonomous Integrable Lotka-Volterra Model.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra model is a differential system of two coupled equations representing the interaction of two species: a prey one and a predator one. We formulate an optimal control problem adding the effect of hunting both species as the control variable. We analyse the optimal hunting problem paying special attention to the nature of the optimal state and control trajectories in long time intervals. To do that, we apply recent theoretical results on the frame to show that, when the time horizon is large enough, optimal strategies are nearly steady-state. Such path is known as turnpike property. Some experiments are performed to observe such turnpike phenomenon in the hunting problem. Based on the turnpike property, we implement a variant of the single shooting method to solve the previous optimisation problem, taking the middle of the time interval as starting point.",
    "title": "Optimal control of the Lotka-Volterra system: turnpike property and numerical simulations.",
    "abstract": "A fundamental problem in community ecology is understanding how ecological processes such as selection, drift, and immigration give rise to observed patterns in species composition and diversity. Here, we analyze a recently introduced, analytically tractable, presence-absence (PA) model for community assembly, and we use it to ask how ecological traits such as the strength of competition, the amount of diversity, and demographic and environmental stochasticity affect species composition in a community. In the PA model, species are treated as stochastic binary variables that can either be present or absent in a community: species can immigrate into the community from a regional species pool and can go extinct due to competition and stochasticity. Building upon previous work, we show that, despite its simplicity, the PA model reproduces the qualitative features of more complicated models of community assembly. In agreement with recent studies of large, competitive Lotka-Volterra systems, the PA model exhibits distinct ecological behaviors organized around a special (\"critical\") point corresponding to Hubbell's neutral theory of biodiversity. These results suggest that the concepts of ecological \"phases\" and phase diagrams can provide a powerful framework for thinking about community ecology, and that the PA model captures the essential ecological dynamics of community assembly.",
    "title": "Analytically tractable model for community ecology with many species.",
    "abstract": "A network effect is introduced taking into account competition, cooperation, and mixed-type interaction among agents along a generalized Verhulst-Lotka-Volterra model. It is also argued that the presence of a market capacity undoubtedly enforces a definite limit on the agent's size growth. The state stability of triadic agents, i.e., the most basic network plaquette, is investigated analytically for possible scenarios, through a fixed-point analysis. It is discovered that: (i) market demand is only satisfied for full competition when one agent monopolizes the market; (ii) growth of agent size is encouraged in full cooperation; (iii) collaboration among agents to compete against one single agent may result in the disappearance of this single agent out of the market; and (iv) cooperating with two rivals may become a growth strategy for an intelligent agent.",
    "title": "Effects of competition and cooperation interaction between agents on networks in the presence of a market capacity.",
    "abstract": "The activity of a biological community is the outcome of complex processes involving interactions between community members. It is often unclear how to accurately incorporate these interactions into predictive models. Previous work has shown a range of positive and negative metabolic pairwise interactions between species. Here we examine the ability of a modified general Lotka-Volterra model with cell-cell interaction coefficients to predict the overall metabolic rate of a well-mixed microbial community comprised of four heterotrophic natural isolates, experimentally quantifying the strengths of two, three, and four-species interactions. Within this community, interactions between any pair of microbial species were positive, while higher-order interactions, between 3 or more microbial species, slightly modulated community metabolism. For this simple community, the metabolic rate of can be well predicted only with taking into account pairwise interactions. Simulations using the experimentally determined interaction parameters revealed that spatial heterogeneity in the distribution of cells increased the importance of multispecies interactions in dictating function at both the local and global scales.",
    "title": "The Contribution of High-Order Metabolic Interactions to the Global Activity of a Four-Species Microbial Community.",
    "abstract": "Computational modeling is a key technique for analyzing models in systems biology. There are well established methods for the estimation of the kinetic parameters in models of ordinary differential equations (ODE). Experimental design techniques aim at devising experiments that maximize the information encoded in the data. For ODE models there are well established approaches for experimental design and even software tools. However, data from single cell experiments on signaling pathways in systems biology often shows intrinsic stochastic effects prompting the development of specialized methods. While simulation methods have been developed for decades and parameter estimation has been targeted for the last years, only very few articles focus on experimental design for stochastic models.\nThe Fisher information matrix is the central measure for experimental design as it evaluates the information an experiment provides for parameter estimation. This article suggest an approach to calculate a Fisher information matrix for models containing intrinsic stochasticity and high nonlinearity. The approach makes use of a recently suggested multiple shooting for stochastic systems (MSS) objective function. The Fisher information matrix is calculated by evaluating pseudo data with the MSS technique.\nThe performance of the approach is evaluated with simulation studies on an Immigration-Death, a Lotka-Volterra, and a Calcium oscillation model. The Calcium oscillation model is a particularly appropriate case study as it contains the challenges inherent to signaling pathways: high nonlinearity, intrinsic stochasticity, a qualitatively different behavior from an ODE solution, and partial observability. The computational speed of the MSS approach for the Fisher information matrix allows for an application in realistic size models.",
    "title": "Experimental Design for Stochastic Models of Nonlinear Signaling Pathways Using an Interval-Wise Linear Noise Approximation and State Estimation.",
    "abstract": "Introducing a new or extirpated species to an ecosystem is risky, and managers need quantitative methods that can predict the consequences for the recipient ecosystem. Proponents of keystone predator reintroductions commonly argue that the presence of the predator will restore ecosystem function, but this has not always been the case, and mathematical modeling has an important role to play in predicting how reintroductions will likely play out. We devised an ensemble modeling method that integrates species interaction networks and dynamic community simulations and used it to describe the range of plausible consequences of 2 keystone-predator reintroductions: wolves (Canis lupus) to Yellowstone National Park and dingoes (Canis dingo) to a national park in Australia. Although previous methods for predicting ecosystem responses to such interventions focused on predicting changes around a given equilibrium, we used Lotka-Volterra equations to predict changing abundances through time. We applied our method to interaction networks for wolves in Yellowstone National Park and for dingoes in Australia. Our model replicated the observed dynamics in Yellowstone National Park and produced a larger range of potential outcomes for the dingo network. However, we also found that changes in small vertebrates or invertebrates gave a good indication about the potential future state of the system. Our method allowed us to predict when the systems were far from equilibrium. Our results showed that the method can also be used to predict which species may increase or decrease following a reintroduction and can identify species that are important to monitor (i.e., species whose changes in abundance give extra insight into broad changes in the system). Ensemble ecosystem modeling can also be applied to assess the ecosystem-wide implications of other types of interventions including assisted migration, biocontrol, and invasive species eradication.",
    "title": "Ensemble ecosystem modeling for predicting ecosystem response to predator reintroduction.",
    "abstract": "We apply the Z-control approach to a generalized predator-prey system and consider the specific case of indirect control of the prey population. We derive the associated Z-controlled model and investigate its properties from the point of view of the dynamical systems theory. The key role of the design parameter \u03bb for the successful application of the method is stressed and related to specific dynamical properties of the Z-controlled model. Critical values of the design parameter are also found, delimiting the \u03bb-range for the effectiveness of the Z-method. Analytical results are then numerically validated by the means of two ecological models: the classical Lotka-Volterra model and a model related to a case study of the wolf-wild boar dynamics in the Alta Murgia National Park. Investigations on these models also highlight how the Z-control method acts in respect to different dynamical regimes of the uncontrolled model.",
    "title": "On the dynamics of a generalized predator-prey system with Z-type control.",
    "abstract": "Language is characterized by both ecological properties and social properties, and competition is the basic form of language evolution. The rise and decline of one language is a result of competition between languages. Moreover, this rise and decline directly influences the diversity of human culture. Mathematics and computer modeling for language competition has been a popular topic in the fields of linguistics, mathematics, computer science, ecology, and other disciplines. Currently, there are several problems in the research on language competition modeling. First, comprehensive mathematical analysis is absent in most studies of language competition models. Next, most language competition models are based on the assumption that one language in the model is stronger than the other. These studies tend to ignore cases where there is a balance of power in the competition. The competition between two well-matched languages is more practical, because it can facilitate the co-development of two languages. A third issue with current studies is that many studies have an evolution result where the weaker language inevitably goes extinct. From the integrated point of view of ecology and sociology, this paper improves the Lotka-Volterra model and basic reaction-diffusion model to propose an \"ecology-society\" computational model for describing language competition. Furthermore, a strict and comprehensive mathematical analysis was made for the stability of the equilibria. Two languages in competition may be either well-matched or greatly different in strength, which was reflected in the experimental design. The results revealed that language coexistence, and even co-development, are likely to occur during language competition.",
    "title": "The possibility of coexistence and co-development in language competition: ecology-society computational model and simulation.",
    "abstract": "Intraspecific trait variation is widespread in nature, yet its effects on community dynamics are not well understood. Here we explore the consequences of intraspecific trait variation for coexistence in two- and multispecies competitive communities. For two species, the likelihood of coexistence is in general reduced by intraspecific variation, except when the species have almost equal trait means but different trait variances, such that one is a generalist and the other a specialist consumer. In multispecies communities, the only strong effect of non-heritable intraspecific variation is to reduce expected species richness. However, when intraspecific variation is heritable, allowing for the possibility of trait evolution, communities are much more resilient against environmental disturbance and exhibit far more predictable trait patterns. Our results are robust to varying model parameters and relaxing model assumptions.",
    "title": "The effect of intraspecific variation and heritability on community pattern and robustness.",
    "abstract": "For two competing species, intraspecific competition must exceed interspecific competition for coexistence. To generalize this well-known criterion to multiple competing species, one must take into account both the distribution of interaction strengths and community structure. Here we derive a multispecies generalization of the two-species rule in the context of symmetric Lotka-Volterra competition and obtain explicit stability conditions for random competitive communities. We then explore the influence of community structure on coexistence. Results show that both the most and least stabilized cases have striking global structures, with a nested pattern emerging in both cases. The distribution of intraspecific coefficients leading to the most and least stabilized communities also follows a predictable pattern that can be justified analytically. In addition, we show that the size of the parameter space allowing for feasible communities always increases with the strength of intraspecific effects in a characteristic way that is independent of the interspecific interaction structure. We conclude by discussing possible extensions of our results to nonsymmetric competition.",
    "title": "The Effect of Intra- and Interspecific Competition on Coexistence in Multispecies Communities.",
    "abstract": "The phenomenon of radicalization is investigated within a mixed population composed of core and sensitive subpopulations. The latest includes first to third generation immigrants. Respective ways of life may be partially incompatible. In case of a conflict core agents behave as inflexible about the issue. In contrast, sensitive agents can decide either to live peacefully adjusting their way of life to the core one, or to oppose it with eventually joining violent activities. The interplay dynamics between peaceful and opponent sensitive agents is driven by pairwise interactions. These interactions occur both within the sensitive population and by mixing with core agents. The update process is monitored using a Lotka-Volterra-like Ordinary Differential Equation. Given an initial tiny minority of opponents that coexist with both inflexible and peaceful agents, we investigate implications on the emergence of radicalization. Opponents try to turn peaceful agents to opponents driving radicalization. However, inflexible core agents may step in to bring back opponents to a peaceful choice thus weakening the phenomenon. The required minimum individual core involvement to actually curb radicalization is calculated. It is found to be a function of both the majority or minority status of the sensitive subpopulation with respect to the core subpopulation and the degree of activeness of opponents. The results highlight the instrumental role core agents can have to hinder radicalization within the sensitive subpopulation. Some hints are outlined to favor novel public policies towards social integration.",
    "title": "Modeling Radicalization Phenomena in Heterogeneous Populations.",
    "abstract": "Marine protected areas (MPAs) are regions in the ocean where fishing is restricted or prohibited. Although several measures for MPA performance exist, here we focus on a specific one, namely the ratio of the steady state fish densities inside and outside the MPA. Several 2 patch models are proposed and analyzed mathematically. One patch represents the MPA, whereas the second patch represents the fishing ground. Fish move freely between both regions in a diffusive manner. Our main objective is to understand how fish mobility affects MPA performance. We show that MPA effectiveness decreases with fish mobility for single species models with logistic growth, and that densities inside and outside the MPA tend to equalize. This suggests that MPA performance is highest for the least mobile species. We then consider a 2 patch Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system. When one of the species moves, and the other does not, the ratio of the moving species first remains constant, and ultimately decreases with increased fish mobility, again with a tendency of equalization of the density in both regions. This suggests that MPA performance is not only highest for slow, but also for moderately mobile species. The discrepancy in MPA performance for single species models and for predator-prey models, confirms that MPA design requires an integrated, ecosystem-based approach. The mathematical approaches advocated here complement and enhance the numerical and theoretical approaches that are commonly applied to more complex models in the context of MPA design.",
    "title": "The effectiveness of marine protected areas for predator and prey with varying mobility.",
    "abstract": "Motivated by the question of stability, in this letter we argue that an effective quantum-like theory can emerge in complex adaptive systems. In the concrete example of stochastic Lotka-Volterra dynamics, the relevant effective \"Planck constant\" associated with such emergent \"quantum\" theory has the dimensions of the square of the unit of time. Such an emergent quantum-like theory has inherently non-classical stability as well as coherent properties that are not, in principle, endangered by thermal fluctuations and therefore might be of crucial importance in complex adaptive systems.",
    "title": "Emergent \"Quantum\" Theory in Complex Adaptive Systems.",
    "abstract": "Functional ecology is a subdiscipline that aims to enable a mechanistic understanding of patterns and processes from the organismic to the ecosystem level. This paper addresses some main aspects of the process-oriented current knowledge on phagotrophic, i.e. heterotrophic and mixotrophic, protists in aquatic food webs. This is not an exhaustive review; rather, we focus on conceptual issues, in particular on the numerical and functional response of these organisms. We discuss the evolution of concepts and define parameters to evaluate predator-prey dynamics ranging from Lotka-Volterra to the Independent Response Model. Since protists have extremely versatile feeding modes, we explore if there are systematic differences related to their taxonomic affiliation and life strategies. We differentiate between intrinsic factors (nutritional history, acclimatisation) and extrinsic factors (temperature, food, turbulence) affecting feeding, growth, and survival of protist populations. We briefly consider intraspecific variability of some key parameters and constraints inherent in laboratory microcosm experiments. We then upscale the significance of phagotrophic protists in food webs to the ocean level. Finally, we discuss limitations of the mechanistic understanding of protist functional ecology resulting from principal unpredictability of nonlinear dynamics. We conclude by defining open questions and identifying perspectives for future research on functional ecology of aquatic phagotrophic protists.",
    "title": "Functional ecology of aquatic phagotrophic protists - Concepts, limitations, and perspectives.",
    "abstract": "We employ Monte Carlo simulations to study a stochastic Lotka-Volterra model on a two-dimensional square lattice with periodic boundary conditions. If the (local) prey carrying capacity is finite, there exists an extinction threshold for the predator population that separates a stable active two-species coexistence phase from an inactive state wherein only prey survive. Holding all other rates fixed, we investigate the non-equilibrium relaxation of the predator density in the vicinity of the critical predation rate. As expected, we observe critical slowing-down, i.e., a power law dependence of the relaxation time on the predation rate, and algebraic decay of the predator density at the extinction critical point. The numerically determined critical exponents are in accord with the established values of the directed percolation universality class. Following a sudden predation rate change to its critical value, one finds critical aging for the predator density autocorrelation function that is also governed by universal scaling exponents. This aging scaling signature of the active-to-absorbing state phase transition emerges at significantly earlier times than the stationary critical power laws, and could thus serve as an advanced indicator of the (predator) population's proximity to its extinction threshold.",
    "title": "Non-equilibrium relaxation in a stochastic lattice Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "In this article, we include data on historical and estimated market shares of two markets. In particular, we include annual data on the market shares of the Japanese beer market (1963-2000) and biannual data on the market shares of the mobile phones market in Greece (1998-2007). In addition, we estimate monthly data on market shares for both markets. We show how this data can be used to derive firms' utility functions and their competitive roles.",
    "title": "Determining firms\u05f3 utility functions and competitive roles from data on market shares using Lotka-Volterra models.",
    "abstract": "Dust-forming plasmas are ionised gases that generate particles from a precursor. In nature, dust-forming plasmas are found in flames, the interstellar medium and comet tails. In the laboratory, they are valuable in generating nanoparticles for medicine and electronics. Dust-forming plasmas exhibit a bizarre, even puzzling behaviour in which they oscillate with timescales of seconds to minutes. Here we show how the problem of understanding these oscillations may be cast as a predator-prey problem, with electrons as prey and particles as predators. The addition of a nonlinear loss term to the classic Lotka-Volterra equations used for describing the predator-prey problem in ecology not only stabilises the oscillations in the solutions for the populations of electrons and particles in the plasma but also explains the behaviour in more detail. The model explains the relative phase difference of the two populations, the way in which the frequency of the oscillations varies with the concentration of the precursor gas, and the oscillations of the light emission, determined by the populations of both species. Our results demonstrate the value of adopting an approach to a complex physical science problem that has been found successful in ecology, where complexity is always present.",
    "title": "Predator-prey dynamics stabilised by nonlinearity explain oscillations in dust-forming plasmas.",
    "abstract": "In many marine ecosystems, diatoms dominate in nutrient-rich coastal waters while coccolithiophores are found offshore in areas where nutrients may be limiting. In lab-controlled batch cultures, mixed-species competition between the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum and the coccolithophore Emiliana huxleyi and the response of each species were examined under nitrate (N) and phosphate (P) starvation. Based on the logistic growth model and the Lotka-Volterra competition model, E.\u00a0huxleyi showed higher competitive abilities than P.\u00a0tricornutum under N and P starvation. For both species, cell growth was more inhibited by P starvation, while photosynthetic functions (chl a fluorescence parameters) and cellular constituents (pigments) were impaired by N starvation. The decline of photosynthetic functions occurred later in E.\u00a0huxleyi (day 12) than in P.\u00a0tricornutum (day 9); this time difference was associated with greater damage of the photosynthetic apparatus in P.\u00a0tricornutum compared with E.\u00a0huxleyi. Xanthophyll cycle pigment accumulation and the transformation from diadinoxanthin to diatoxanthin was more active in E.\u00a0huxleyi than P.\u00a0tricornutum, under similar N and P starvation. We concluded that E.\u00a0huxleyi and P.\u00a0tricornutum have different mechanisms to allocate resources and energy under nutrient starvation. It appears that E.\u00a0huxleyi has a more economic strategy to adapt to nutrient depleted environments than P.\u00a0tricornutum. These findings provided additional evidence explaining how N versus P limitation differentially support diatom and coccolithophore blooms in natural environments.",
    "title": "Comparison of population growth and photosynthetic apparatus changes in response to different nutrient status in a diatom and a coccolithophore.",
    "abstract": "Recent studies have reported that population dynamics and evolutionary dynamics, occurring at different time scales, can be affected by each other. Our purpose is to explore the interaction between population and evolutionary dynamics using an artificial life approach based on a 3D physically simulated environment in the context of predator-prey and morphology-behavior coevolution. The morphologies and behaviors of virtual prey creatures are evolved using a genetic algorithm based on the predation interactions between predators and prey. Both population sizes are also changed, depending on the fitness. We observe two types of cyclic behaviors, corresponding to short-term and long-term dynamics. The former can be interpreted as a simple population dynamics of Lotka-Volterra type. It is shown that the latter cycle is based on the interaction between the changes in the prey strategy against predators and the long-term change in both population sizes, resulting partly from a tradeoff between their defensive success and the cost of defense.",
    "title": "Population and Evolutionary Dynamics based on Predator-Prey Relationships in a 3D Physical Simulation.",
    "abstract": "Archaeologists argue that the replacement of Neanderthals by modern humans was driven by interspecific competition due to a difference in culture level. To assess the cogency of this argument, we construct and analyze an interspecific cultural competition model based on the Lotka-Volterra model, which is widely used in ecology, but which incorporates the culture level of a species as a variable interacting with population size. We investigate the conditions under which a difference in culture level between cognitively equivalent species, or alternatively a difference in underlying learning ability, may produce competitive exclusion of a comparatively (although not absolutely) large local Neanderthal population by an initially smaller modern human population. We find, in particular, that this competitive exclusion is more likely to occur when population growth occurs on a shorter timescale than cultural change, or when the competition coefficients of the Lotka-Volterra model depend on the difference in the culture levels of the interacting species.",
    "title": "An ecocultural model predicts Neanderthal extinction through competition with modern humans.",
    "abstract": "In food webs, many interacting species coexist despite the restrictions imposed by the competitive exclusion principle and apparent competition. For the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations, sustainable coexistence necessitates nonzero determinant of the interaction matrix. Here we show that this requirement is equivalent to demanding that each species be part of a non-overlapping pairing, which substantially constrains the food web structure. We demonstrate that a stable food web can always be obtained if a non-overlapping pairing exists. If it does not, the matrix rank can be used to quantify the lack of niches, corresponding to unpaired species. For the species richness at each trophic level, we derive the food web assembly rules, which specify sustainable combinations. In neighboring levels, these rules allow the higher level to avert competitive exclusion at the lower, thereby incorporating apparent competition. In agreement with data, the assembly rules predict high species numbers at intermediate levels and thinning at the top and bottom. Using comprehensive food web data, we demonstrate how omnivores or parasites with hosts at multiple trophic levels can loosen the constraints and help obtain coexistence in food webs. Hence, omnivory may be the glue that keeps communities intact even under extinction or ecological release of species.",
    "title": "Food Web Assembly Rules for Generalized Lotka-Volterra Equations.",
    "abstract": "Many biological species increase their dispersal rate if starvation starts. To model such a behavior, we need to understand how organisms measure starvation and response to it. In this paper, we compare three different ways of measuring starvation by applying them to starvation-driven diffusion. The evolutional selection and coexistence of such starvation measures are studied within the context of Lotka-Volterra-type competition model of two species. We will see that, if species have different starvation measures and different motility functions, both the coexistence and selection are possible.",
    "title": "Evolution of Dispersal with Starvation Measure and Coexistence.",
    "abstract": "We analyze the dynamics of three models of mutualism, establishing the global stability of coexisting equilibria by means of Lyapunov's second method. This further establishes the usefulness of certain Lyapunov functionals of an abstract nature introduced in an earlier paper. As a consequence, it is seen that the use of higher order self-limiting terms cures the shortcomings of Lotka-Volterra mutualisms, preventing unbounded growth and promoting global stability.",
    "title": "The global stability of coexisting equilibria for three models of mutualism.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the competition between two groups of similar agents in the restricted, but classical context of unstructured populations varying in continuous time in an isolated, homogeneous, and constant abiotic environment. Individual behavioral and phenotypic traits are quantified by one-dimensional strategies and intra- as well as inter-specific interactions are described in the vicinity of a stationary regime. Some known results are revisited: invasion by a new strategy generically implies the substitution of the former resident; and resident-invader coexistence is possible close to singular strategies-the stationary points of the invasion fitness-and is generically protected-each of the two competing groups can invade the other. An (almost known) old conjecture is shown true: competition close to a singular strategy is \"essentially Lotka-Volterra\"-dominance of one strategy, protected coexistence at an intermediate equilibrium, and mutual exclusion are the generic outcomes. And the unfolding of the competition scenarios is completed with the analysis of three degenerate singular strategies-characterized by vanishing second-order fitness derivatives-near which resident-invader coexistence can be unprotected. Our approach is based on the series expansion of a generic demographic model, w.r.t. the small strategy difference between the two competing groups, and on known results on time-scale separation and bifurcation theories. The analysis is carried out up to third order and is extendable to any order. For each order, explicit genericity conditions under which higher orders can be neglected are derived and, interestingly, they are known prior to invasion. An important result is that degeneracies up to third-order are required to have more than one stable way of coexistence. Such degeneracies can be due to particular symmetries in the model formulation, and breaking the genericity conditions provides a direct way to draw biological interpretations. The developed body of theory is exemplified on a model for the evolution of cannibalism and on Lotka-Volterra competition models.",
    "title": "Unfolding the resident-invader dynamics of similar strategies.",
    "abstract": "Understanding the factors that control the dynamics of interacting species is a fundamental problem in ecology. The nature of the interactions among different species is usually not completely understood, but it is assumed that the species interaction plays an important role in the ecosystem properties as predicted by the niches models for an ecosystem. However, recent studies point out as the neutral hypothesis proposed by Hubbell of non-interacting species with an external source from the surrounding environment, allows to explain the relative species abundance distribution when the ecosystem has reached a stationary situation. In this paper we use the concept of fitness landscape to introduce a random dynamical model that describes the evolution of different communities near a stationary situation. The average dynamics can be associated to a system of Lotka-Volterra equations with mutualistic interactions. Then we derive a Master equation that satisfies the detailed balance condition of thermodynamical equilibria and allows to analytically compute the relative species abundance distribution near the stationary state as a multinomial negative distribution. These results suggest a possible approach to a synthetic theory that joins the niche theories and the Hubbell's neutral theory for RSA distribution.",
    "title": "Master equation and relative species abundance distribution for Lotka-Volterra models of interacting ecological communities.",
    "abstract": "Two experiments are reported in which participants perceived different physical quantities: size and speed. The perceptual tasks were performed in the context of motor performance problems. Participants perceived the size of objects in order to grasp the objects single handed or with both hands. Likewise, participants perceived the speed of a moving treadmill in order to control walking or running at that speed. In both experiments, the perceptual tasks were repeatedly performed by the participants while the to-be-perceived quantity was gradually varied from small to large objects (Experiment 1) and from low to high speeds (Experiment 2). Hysteresis with negative sign was found when participants were not allowed to execute the motor component, that is, when the execution stage was decoupled from the planning stage. No such effect was found in the control condition, when participants were allowed to execute the motor action. Using a Lotka-Volterra-Haken model for two competing neural populations, it is argued that the observations are consistent with the notion that the repetitions induce an adaptation effect of the perceptual system via top-down regulation. Moreover, the amount of synaptic modulation involved in the adaptation is estimated from participant data.",
    "title": "Perception adapts via top-down regulation to task repetition: A Lotka-Volterra-Haken modeling analysis of experimental data.",
    "abstract": "The population control of the Lotka-Volterra model is one of the most important and widely investigated issues in mathematical ecology. In this study, assuming that birth rate is controllable and using the Z-type dynamic method, we develop Z-type control laws to drive the prey population and/or predator population to a desired state to keep species away from extinction and to improve ecosystem stability. A direct controller group is initially designed to control the prey and predator populations simultaneously. Two indirect controllers are then proposed for prey population control and predator population control by exerting exogenous measure on another species. All three control laws possess exponential convergence performances. Finally, the corresponding numerical simulations are performed. Results substantiate the theoretical analysis and effectiveness of such Z-type control laws for the population control of the Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "title": "Z-type control of populations for Lotka-Volterra model with exponential convergence.",
    "abstract": "Around the globe, people fight for their honor, even if it means sacrificing their lives. This is puzzling from an evolutionary perspective, and little is known about the conditions under which honor cultures evolve. We implemented an agent-based model of honor, and our simulations showed that the reliability of institutions and toughness of the environment are crucial conditions for the evolution of honor cultures. Honor cultures survive when the effectiveness of the authorities is low, even in very tough environments. Moreover, the results show that honor cultures and aggressive cultures are mutually dependent in what resembles a predator-prey relationship described in the renowned Lotka-Volterra model. Both cultures are eliminated when institutions are reliable. These results have implications for understanding conflict throughout the world, where Western-based strategies are exported, often unsuccessfully, to contexts of weak institutional authority wherein honor-based strategies have been critical for survival.",
    "title": "The Evolutionary Basis of Honor Cultures.",
    "abstract": "Analysis of deviations between trajectories of Lotka-Volterra model of competition between two species and G.F. Gause experimental time series on combined cultivation of Paramecium aurelia and Paramecium caudatum shows that with rather big probability there is no correspondence between model and experimental datasets. Testing of sets of deviations was provided on symmetry with. respect to origin (Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Lehmann-Rosenblatt, Wald-Wolfowitz, and Munn-Whitney criterions) and on existence/absence of serial correlation in sequences of residuals (Swed-Eisenhart and \"jumps up-jumps down\" tests).",
    "title": "[Lotka-Volterra Model of Competition between Two Species and Gause Experiments: Is There Any Correspondence?].",
    "abstract": "Tanabe and Namba (Ecology, 86, 3411-3414) studied a three species Lotka-Volterra model with omnivory and explored that omnivory can create chaos. It is well documented that predator switching is a similar biological phenomenon to omnivory and likely to occur simultaneously. In the present paper, the tri-trophic Lotka-Volterra food web model with omnivory and predator switching is re-investigated. We observe that if we incorporate predator switching in the system and the intensity of predator switching increases above a threshold value, then the system will be stable from chaotic dynamics. To study the global dynamics of the system extensive numerical simulations are performed. Our analytical and numerical results suggest that predator switching mechanism enhances the stability and the persistence of a food chain system.",
    "title": "Chaos control via feeding switching in an omnivory system.",
    "abstract": "Temporal order memories are critical for everyday animal and human functioning. Experiments and our own experience show that the binding or association of various features of an event together and the maintaining of multimodality events in sequential order are the key components of any sequential memories-episodic, semantic, working, etc. We study a robustness of binding sequential dynamics based on our previously introduced model in the form of generalized Lotka-Volterra equations. In the phase space of the model, there exists a multi-dimensional binding heteroclinic network consisting of saddle equilibrium points and heteroclinic trajectories joining them. We prove here the robustness of the binding sequential dynamics, i.e., the feasibility phenomenon for coupled heteroclinic networks: for each collection of successive heteroclinic trajectories inside the unified networks, there is an open set of initial points such that the trajectory going through each of them follows the prescribed collection staying in a small neighborhood of it. We show also that the symbolic complexity function of the system restricted to this neighborhood is a polynomial of degree L - 1, where L is the number of modalities.",
    "title": "Sequential memory: Binding dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Plants affect microbial communities and abiotic properties of nearby soils, which in turn influence plant growth and interspecific interaction, forming a plant-soil feedback (PSF). PSF is a key determinant influencing plant population dynamics, community structure, and ecosystem functions. Despite accumulating evidence for the importance of PSF and development of specific PSF models, different models are not yet fully integrated. Here, we review the theoretical progress in understanding PSF. When first proposed, PSF was integrated with various mathematical frameworks to discuss its influence on plant competition. Recent theoretical models have advanced PSF research at different levels of ecological organizations by considering multiple species, applying spatially explicit simulations to examine how local-scale predictions apply to larger scales, and assessing the effect of PSF on plant temporal dynamics over the course of succession. We then review two foundational models for microbial- and litter-mediated PSF. We present a theoretical framework to illustrate that although the two models are typically presented separately, their behavior can be understood together by invasibility analysis. We conclude with suggestions for future directions in PSF theoretical studies, which include specifically addressing microbial diversity to integrate litter- and microbial-mediated PSF, and apply PSF to general coexistence theory through a trait-based approach.",
    "title": "Incorporating the soil environment and microbial community into plant competition theory.",
    "abstract": "One of the key results of the food web theory states that the interior equilibrium of a tri-trophic food chain described by the Lotka-Volterra type dynamics is globally asymptotically stable whenever it exists. This article extends this result to food webs consisting of several food chains sharing a common resource. A Lyapunov function for such food webs is constructed and asymptotic stability of the interior equilibrium is proved. Numerical simulations show that as the number of food chains increases, the real part of the leading eigenvalue, while still negative, approaches zero. Thus the resilience of such food webs decreases with the number of food chains in the web.",
    "title": "Asymptotic stability of tri-trophic food chains sharing a common resource.",
    "abstract": "The effect of competition on species that coexist with similar ecological niches is an important theme in ecology. Furthermore, species displacement by introduced or invaded species is also an important environmental problem for biological control and conservation ecology. We tested whether two species of phytoseiids could coexist in closed cages with ample quantities of the extraguild prey species Carpoglyphus lactis (L.). Three species of phytoseiid mites-Amblyseius eharai Amitai & Swirski (a species native to China), Amblyseius swirskii (Athias-Henriot) and Neoseiulus cucumeris (Oudemans) (both species were introduced from outside of China)-were tested under experimental conditions (25\u2009\u00b1\u20091\u00b0C, 90\u2009\u00b1\u20095% relative humidity, and a photoperiod of 14:10 [L:D] h). With extraguild prey, we found that the numbers of a single population of each phytoseiid species (initial density of 10 females per cage) reached a plateau between 18 and 25\u2009d after introduction into the experimental cages, suggesting that density-dependent factors were operating. In closed environments, one of these density-dependent factors might be cannibalism by these species. With regression analyses, Lotka-Volterra equations estimated the rate of population increase (r) and the carrying capacity (K) of each species with the data from observations on population dynamics. We next observed the interactions of two phytoseiid species with abundant extraguild prey. In all species combinations, one species went extinct and the other increased in population size, despite the availability of sufficient extraguild prey, suggesting some type of competition must have caused the extinctions. We suggested that intraguild predation is the most plausible hypothesis to explain the results.",
    "title": "Competitive and Predacious Interactions Among Three Phytoseiid Species Under Experimental Conditions (Acari: Phytoseiidae).",
    "abstract": "Most terrestrial plant communities exhibit relatively high species diversity and many competitive species are ubiquitous. Many theoretical studies have been carried out to investigate the coexistence of a few competitive species and in most cases they suggest competitive exclusion. Theoretical studies have revealed that coexistence of even three or four species can be extremely difficult. It has been suggested that the coexistence of many species has been achieved by the fine differences in suitable microhabitats for each species, attributing to niche-separation. So far there is no explicit demonstration of such a coexistence in mathematical and simulation studies. Here we built a simple lattice Lotka-Volterra model of competition by incorporating the minute differences of suitable microhabitats for many species. By applying the site variations in species-specific settlement rates of a seedling, we achieved the coexistence of more than 10 species. This result indicates that competition between many species is avoided by the spatial variations in species-specific microhabitats. Our results demonstrate that coexistence of many species becomes possible by the minute differences in microhabitats. This mechanism should be applicable to many vegetation types, such as temperate forests and grasslands.",
    "title": "Microhabitat locality allows multi-species coexistence in terrestrial plant communities.",
    "abstract": "Reaction-diffusion models are used to describe systems in fields as diverse as physics, chemistry, ecology and biology. The fundamental quantities in such models are individual entities such as atoms and molecules, bacteria, cells or animals, which move and/or react in a stochastic manner. If the number of entities is large, accounting for each individual is inefficient, and often partial differential equation (PDE) models are used in which the stochastic behaviour of individuals is replaced by a description of the averaged, or mean behaviour of the system. In some situations the number of individuals is large in certain regions and small in others. In such cases, a stochastic model may be inefficient in one region, and a PDE model inaccurate in another. To overcome this problem, we develop a scheme which couples a stochastic reaction-diffusion system in one part of the domain with its mean field analogue, i.e. a discretised PDE model, in the other part of the domain. The interface in between the two domains occupies exactly one lattice site and is chosen such that the mean field description is still accurate there. In this way errors due to the flux between the domains are small. Our scheme can account for multiple dynamic interfaces separating multiple stochastic and deterministic domains, and the coupling between the domains conserves the total number of particles. The method preserves stochastic features such as extinction not observable in the mean field description, and is significantly faster to simulate on a computer than the pure stochastic model.",
    "title": "Hybrid approaches for multiple-species stochastic reaction-diffusion models.",
    "abstract": "Semi-analytical solutions for the diffusive Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system with delay are considered in one and two-dimensional domains. The Galerkin method is applied, which approximates the spatial structure of both the predator and prey populations. This approach is used to obtain a lower-order, ordinary differential delay equation model for the system of governing delay partial differential equations. Steady-state and transient solutions and the region of parameter space, in which Hopf bifurcations occur, are all found. In some cases simple linear expressions are found as approximations, to describe steady-state solutions and the Hopf parameter regions. An asymptotic analysis for the periodic solution near the Hopf bifurcation point is performed for the one-dimensional domain. An excellent agreement is shown in comparisons between semi-analytical and numerical solutions of the governing equations.",
    "title": "The diffusive Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system with delay.",
    "abstract": "The olfactory information that is received by the insect brain is encoded in the form of spatiotemporal patterns in the projection neurons of the antennal lobe. These dense and overlapping patterns are transformed into a sparse code in Kenyon cells in the mushroom body. Although it is clear that this sparse code is the basis for rapid categorization of odors, it is yet unclear how the sparse code in Kenyon cells is computed and what information it represents. Here we show that this computation can be modeled by sequential firing rate patterns using Lotka-Volterra equations and Bayesian online inference. This new model can be understood as an 'intelligent coincidence detector', which robustly and dynamically encodes the presence of specific odor features. We found that the model is able to qualitatively reproduce experimentally observed activity in both the projection neurons and the Kenyon cells. In particular, the model explains mechanistically how sparse activity in the Kenyon cells arises from the dense code in the projection neurons. The odor classification performance of the model proved to be robust against noise and time jitter in the observed input sequences. As in recent experimental results, we found that recognition of an odor happened very early during stimulus presentation in the model. Critically, by using the model, we found surprising but simple computational explanations for several experimental phenomena.",
    "title": "Modelling Odor Decoding in the Antennal Lobe by Combining Sequential Firing Rate Models with Bayesian Inference.",
    "abstract": "We report experiments with polyaniline-Fe3O4 (PANI-Fe3O4) nanocomposites synthesized under several different conditions. With a reaction carried out at room temperature and assisted by intense ultra-violet (UV) irradiation, we observe sustained oscillations in the magnetization with a period of about 25 min. The oscillations are interpreted as the result of an oscillatory chemical reaction in which part of the Fe(+2) ions of magnetite, Fe3O4, are oxidized by the UV irradiation to form Fe(+3) so that a fraction of the magnetite content transforms into maghemite, \u03b3-Fe2O3. Then, Fe(+3) ions at the nanoparticle surfaces are reduced and transformed back into Fe(+2), when acting as an oxidizing agent for polyaniline in the polymerization process. Since maghemite has smaller magnetization than magnetite, the oscillating chemical reaction results in the oscillatory magnetization. The observations are interpreted with the Lotka-Volterra nonlinear coupled equations with parameters that can be adjusted to fit very well the experimental data.",
    "title": "Sustained magnetization oscillations in polyaniline-Fe3O4 nanocomposites.",
    "abstract": "The matching-allele and gene-for-gene models are widely used in mathematical approaches that study the dynamics of host-parasite interactions. Agrawal and Lively (Evolutionary Ecology Research 4:79-90, 2002) captured these two models in a single framework and numerically explored the associated time discrete dynamics of allele frequencies.\nHere, we present a detailed analytical investigation of this unifying framework in continuous time and provide a generalization. We extend the model to take into account changing population sizes, which result from the antagonistic nature of the interaction and follow the Lotka-Volterra equations. Under this extension, the population dynamics become most complex as the model moves away from pure matching-allele and becomes more gene-for-gene-like. While the population densities oscillate with a single oscillation frequency in the pure matching-allele model, a second oscillation frequency arises under gene-for-gene-like conditions. These observations hold for general interaction parameters and allow to infer generic patterns of the dynamics.\nOur results suggest that experimentally inferred dynamical patterns of host-parasite coevolution should typically be much more complex than the popular illustrations of Red Queen dynamics. A single parasite that infects more than one host can substantially alter the cyclic dynamics.",
    "title": "Host-parasite coevolution in populations of constant and variable size.",
    "abstract": "We explore and analyze the nonlinear switching dynamics of neuronal networks with non-homogeneous connectivity. The general significance of such transient dynamics for brain function is unclear; however, for instance decision-making processes in perception and cognition have been implicated with it. The network under study here is comprised of three subnetworks of either excitatory or inhibitory leaky integrate-and-fire neurons, of which two are of the same type. The synaptic weights are arranged to establish and maintain a balance between excitation and inhibition in case of a constant external drive. Each subnetwork is randomly connected, where all neurons belonging to a particular population have the same in-degree and the same out-degree. Neurons in different subnetworks are also randomly connected with the same probability; however, depending on the type of the pre-synaptic neuron, the synaptic weight is scaled by a factor. We observed that for a certain range of the \"within\" versus \"between\" connection weights (bifurcation parameter), the network activation spontaneously switches between the two sub-networks of the same type. This kind of dynamics has been termed \"winnerless competition\", which also has a random component here. In our model, this phenomenon is well described by a set of coupled stochastic differential equations of Lotka-Volterra type that imply a competition between the subnetworks. The associated mean-field model shows the same dynamical behavior as observed in simulations of large networks comprising thousands of spiking neurons. The deterministic phase portrait is characterized by two attractors and a saddle node, its stochastic component is essentially given by the multiplicative inherent noise of the system. We find that the dwell time distribution of the active states is exponential, indicating that the noise drives the system randomly from one attractor to the other. A similar model for a larger number of populations might suggest a general approach to study the dynamics of interacting populations of spiking networks.",
    "doi": "10.1371/journal.pone.0138947\n10.1371/journal.pbio.0030068\n10.1073/pnas.1016051108\n10.1126/science.274.5290.1133\n10.1038/ncomms6319\n10.1038/ncomms6319\n10.1017/S0140525X00040164\n10.1088/0954-898X/9/1/007\n10.3389/fncom.2014.00056\n10.1038/nn.3220\n10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3733-05.2006\n10.1016/j.neuron.2008.09.034\n10.1073/pnas.93.2.628\n10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113038\n10.1016/S0896-6273(02)01092-9\n10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002086\n10.1152/jn.00116.2007\n10.3758/BF03204122\n10.1162/089976698300017377\n10.1023/A:1014942129705\n10.1016/j.cub.2006.05.054\n10.1162/neco.2007.19.1.1\n10.1073/pnas.1121274109\n10.1093/cercor/7.3.237\n10.1016/S1364-6613(03)00197-9\n10.1038/81460\n10.1073/pnas.92.19.8616\n10.1038/nrn1198\n10.1016/S0165-0173(98)00002-2\n10.1073/pnas.0502366102\n10.1002/hipo.1041\n10.1016/j.tics.2011.03.007\n10.1016/j.tics.2011.03.007\n10.1007/BF00288786\n10.1016/S0006-3495(72)86068-5\n10.1103/PhysRevE.51.738\n10.2307/2298330\n10.1162/neco.1997.9.1.77\n10.1080/14689360903322227\n10.1080/14689360903322227\n10.3389/fncom.2011.00024/abstract\n10.3389/fncom.2011.00024\n10.1016/j.neuron.2005.09.032\n10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.263\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2009.12.126\n10.1371/journal.pone.0002534\n10.3389/fncom.2014.00142/abstract\n10.1103/PhysRevE.64.026118\n10.4249/scholarpedia.1430\n10.1016/j.neuron.2011.02.025\n10.1023/A:1008925309027\n10.1109/TSMC.1983.6313075\n10.1162/089976603321891756\n10.1162/089976699300016179\n10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1677-11.2011\n10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002596\n10.1126/science.1179850\n10.1162/089976698300017214\n10.1103/PhysRev.81.617\n10.1016/S0022-5193(87)80179-0\n10.1371/journal.pone.0088254\n10.1038/35016072\n10.1162/089976602760408008\n10.1162/089976603321192103\n10.1016/j.cub.2005.04.009\n10.1007/s11571-009-9078-0\n10.1103/PhysRevLett.87.068102",
    "title": "Dynamics of Competition between Subnetworks of Spiking Neuronal Networks in the Balanced State.",
    "abstract": "A multiagent based model for a system of cooperative agents aiming at growth is proposed. This is based on a set of generalized Verhulst-Lotka-Volterra differential equations. In this study, strong cooperation is allowed among agents having similar sizes, and weak cooperation if agents have markedly different \"sizes\", thus establishing a peer-to-peer modulated interaction scheme. A rigorous analysis of the stable configurations is presented first examining the fixed points of the system, next determining their stability as a function of the model parameters. It is found that the agents are self-organizing into clusters. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that, depending on parameter values, multiple stable configurations can coexist. It occurs that only one of them always emerges with probability close to one, because its associated attractor dominates over the rest. This is shown through numerical integrations and simulations, after analytic developments. In contrast to the competitive case, agents are able to increase their capacity beyond the no-interaction case limit. In other words, when some collaborative partnership among a relatively small number of partners takes place, all agents act in good faith prioritizing the common good, when receiving a mutual benefit allowing them to surpass their capacity.",
    "title": "Cooperative peer-to-peer multiagent-based systems.",
    "abstract": "Game theory ideas provide a useful framework for studying evolutionary dynamics in a well-mixed environment. This approach, however, typically enforces a strictly fixed overall population size, deemphasizing natural growth processes. We study a competitive Lotka-Volterra model, with number fluctuations, that accounts for natural population growth and encompasses interaction scenarios typical of evolutionary games. We show that, in an appropriate limit, the model describes standard evolutionary games with both genetic drift and overall population size fluctuations. However, there are also regimes where a varying population size can strongly influence the evolutionary dynamics. We focus on the strong mutualism scenario and demonstrate that standard evolutionary game theory fails to describe our simulation results. We then analytically and numerically determine fixation probabilities as well as mean fixation times using matched asymptotic expansions, taking into account the population size degree of freedom. These results elucidate the interplay between population dynamics and evolutionary dynamics in well-mixed systems.",
    "title": "Evolutionary dynamics with fluctuating population sizes and strong mutualism.",
    "abstract": "The early years of life are important for immune development and influence health in adulthood. Although it has been established that the gut bacterial microbiome is rapidly acquired after birth, less is known about the viral microbiome (or 'virome'), consisting of bacteriophages and eukaryotic RNA and DNA viruses, during the first years of life. Here, we characterized the gut virome and bacterial microbiome in a longitudinal cohort of healthy infant twins. The virome and bacterial microbiome were more similar between co-twins than between unrelated infants. From birth to 2 years of age, the eukaryotic virome and the bacterial microbiome expanded, but this was accompanied by a contraction of and shift in the bacteriophage virome composition. The bacteriophage-bacteria relationship begins from birth with a high predator-low prey dynamic, consistent with the Lotka-Volterra prey model. Thus, in contrast to the stable microbiome observed in adults, the infant microbiome is highly dynamic and associated with early life changes in the composition of bacteria, viruses and bacteriophages with age.",
    "title": "Early life dynamics of the human gut virome and bacterial microbiome in infants.",
    "abstract": "Parameter estimation is central for analyzing models in Systems Biology. The relevance of stochastic modeling in the field is increasing. Therefore, the need for tailored parameter estimation techniques is increasing as well. Challenges for parameter estimation are partial observability, measurement noise, and the computational complexity arising from the dimension of the parameter space. This article extends the multiple shooting for stochastic systems' method, developed for inference in intrinsic stochastic systems. The treatment of extrinsic noise and the estimation of the unobserved states is improved, by taking into account the correlation between unobserved and observed species. This article demonstrates the power of the method on different scenarios of a Lotka-Volterra model, including cases in which the prey population dies out or explodes, and a Calcium oscillation system. Besides showing how the new extension improves the accuracy of the parameter estimates, this article analyzes the accuracy of the state estimates. In contrast to previous approaches, the new approach is well able to estimate states and parameters for all the scenarios. As it does not need stochastic simulations, it is of the same order of speed as conventional least squares parameter estimation methods with respect to computational time.",
    "title": "Reconstructing the hidden states in time course data of stochastic models.",
    "abstract": "The key concepts underlying the Frank model (1953) for spontaneous asymmetric synthesis in chemistry are traced back to the pioneering works of Volterra (1926) and Lotka (1932) on biological species competition. The Lotka-Volterra (L-V) two-species exclusive competition model reduces to the Frank model for the special case of distinguishable but degenerate species (i.e., the enantiomers). The important ecological principle of competitive exclusion, originally derived from the L-V two-competitors model, is a consequence of sufficiently antagonistic interactions between the species competing for limited common resources, or mutual inhibition, as the term is known in the chemical literature on absolute asymmetric synthesis. The L-V and Frank models are described by the same general differential equations, nevertheless a crucial thermodynamic distinction between these models is necessary to correlate ecological selection and chemical selectivity arising from 1) the absence of reversibility in biological transformations, in marked contrast to chemical reactions, and 2) the constraints in chemical scenarios on the reaction rate constants required to fulfill the principle of micro-reversibility.",
    "title": "Competitive exclusion principle in ecology and absolute asymmetric synthesis in chemistry.",
    "abstract": "Species-rich communities, in which many competing species coexist in a single trophic level, are quite frequent in nature, but pose a formidable theoretical challenge. In particular, it is known that complex competitive systems become unstable and unfeasible when the number of species is large. Recently, many studies have attributed the stability of natural communities to the structure of the interspecific interaction network, yet the nature of such structures and the underlying mechanisms responsible for them remain open questions. Here we introduce an evolutionary model, based on the generic Lotka-Volterra competitive framework, from which a stable, structured, diverse community emerges spontaneously. The modular structure of the competition matrix reflects the phylogeny of the community, in agreement with the hierarchial taxonomic classification. Closely related species tend to have stronger niche overlap and weaker fitness differences, as opposed to pairs of species from different modules. The competitive-relatedness hypothesis and the idea of emergent neutrality are discussed in the context of this evolutionary model.",
    "title": "Emergence of structured communities through evolutionary dynamics.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we analyze the effects of introducing the fractional-in-space operator into a Lotka-Volterra competitive model describing population super-diffusion. First, we study how cross super-diffusion influences the formation of spatial patterns: a linear stability analysis is carried out, showing that cross super-diffusion triggers Turing instabilities, whereas classical (self) super-diffusion does not. In addition we perform a weakly nonlinear analysis yielding a system of amplitude equations, whose study shows the stability of Turing steady states. A second goal of this contribution is to propose a fully adaptive multiresolution finite volume method that employs shifted Gr\u00fcnwald gradient approximations, and which is tailored for a larger class of systems involving fractional diffusion operators. The scheme is aimed at efficient dynamic mesh adaptation and substantial savings in computational burden. A numerical simulation of the model was performed near the instability boundaries, confirming the behavior predicted by our analysis.",
    "title": "Turing pattern dynamics and adaptive discretization for a super-diffusive Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "We present numerical simulations of metastable states in heterogeneous neural fields that are connected along heteroclinic orbits. Such trajectories are possible representations of transient neural activity as observed, for example, in the electroencephalogram. Based on previous theoretical findings on learning algorithms for neural fields, we directly construct synaptic weight kernels from Lotka-Volterra neural population dynamics without supervised training approaches. We deliver a MATLAB neural field toolbox validated by two examples of one- and two-dimensional neural fields. We demonstrate trial-to-trial variability and distributed representations in our simulations which might therefore be regarded as a proof-of-concept for more advanced neural field models of metastable dynamics in neurophysiological data.",
    "title": "Metastable dynamics in heterogeneous neural fields.",
    "abstract": "Frequency-dependent selection and demographic fluctuations play important roles in evolutionary and ecological processes. Under frequency-dependent selection, the average fitness of the population may increase or decrease based on interactions between individuals within the population. This should be reflected in fluctuations of the population size even in constant environments. Here, we propose a stochastic model that naturally combines these two evolutionary ingredients by assuming frequency-dependent competition between different types in an individual-based model. In contrast to previous game theoretic models, the carrying capacity of the population, and thus the population size, is determined by pairwise competition of individuals mediated by evolutionary games and demographic stochasticity. In the limit of infinite population size, the averaged stochastic dynamics is captured by deterministic competitive Lotka-Volterra equations. In small populations, demographic stochasticity may instead lead to the extinction of the entire population. Because the population size is driven by fitness in evolutionary games, a population of cooperators is less prone to go extinct than a population of defectors, whereas in the usual systems of fixed size the population would thrive regardless of its average payoff.",
    "title": "Stochastic game dynamics under demographic fluctuations.",
    "abstract": "Many modern statistical applications involve inference for complicated stochastic models for which the likelihood function is difficult or even impossible to calculate, and hence conventional likelihood-based inferential techniques cannot be used. In such settings, Bayesian inference can be performed using Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC). However, in spite of many recent developments to ABC methodology, in many applications the computational cost of ABC necessitates the choice of summary statistics and tolerances that can potentially severely bias the estimate of the posterior. We propose a new \"piecewise\" ABC approach suitable for discretely observed Markov models that involves writing the posterior density of the parameters as a product of factors, each a function of only a subset of the data, and then using ABC within each factor. The approach has the advantage of side-stepping the need to choose a summary statistic and it enables a stringent tolerance to be set, making the posterior \"less approximate\". We investigate two methods for estimating the posterior density based on ABC samples for each of the factors: the first is to use a Gaussian approximation for each factor, and the second is to use a kernel density estimate. Both methods have their merits. The Gaussian approximation is simple, fast, and probably adequate for many applications. On the other hand, using instead a kernel density estimate has the benefit of consistently estimating the true piecewise ABC posterior as the number of ABC samples tends to infinity. We illustrate the piecewise ABC approach with four examples; in each case, the approach offers fast and accurate inference.",
    "title": "Piecewise Approximate Bayesian Computation: fast inference for discretely observed Markov models using a factorised posterior distribution.",
    "abstract": "Many models in the physical and life sciences, formulated as dynamical systems, exhibit a positive steady state, with its local qualitative behavior determined by the eigenvalues of its Jacobian matrix. Our interest lies in detecting if this steady state is linearly stable or if the system has periodic solutions arising from a Hopf bifurcation. We address this by considering the sign pattern of the Jacobian matrix and its set of allowed refined inertias. The refined inertia of a matrix, which is an extension of the classical matrix inertia, is a property of its eigenvalues. A Hopf bifurcation, leading to periodic solutions, may be possible if the sign pattern of the Jacobian matrix allows a specific set of refined inertias. For most systems, we also need to consider magnitude restrictions on the entries of the Jacobian matrix that are a consequence of the particular biological model. The usefulness of sign pattern analysis to detect linear stability or the possibility of periodicity is illustrated with several biological examples, including metabolic-genetic circuits, biochemical reaction networks, predator-prey and competition systems.",
    "title": "Using sign patterns to detect the possibility of periodicity in biological systems.",
    "abstract": "We consider cyclic Lotka-Volterra models with three and four strategies where at every interaction agents play a strategy using a time-dependent probability distribution. Agents learn from a loss by reducing the probability to play a losing strategy at the next interaction. For that, an agent is described as an urn containing \u03b2 balls of three and four types, respectively, where after a loss one of the balls corresponding to the losing strategy is replaced by a ball representing the winning strategy. Using both mean-field rate equations and numerical simulations, we investigate a range of quantities that allows us to characterize the properties of these cyclic models with time-dependent probability distributions. For the three-strategy case in a spatial setting we observe a transition from neutrally stable to stable when changing the level of discretization of the probability distribution. For large values of \u03b2, yielding a good approximation to a continuous distribution, spatially synchronized temporal oscillations dominate the system. For the four-strategy game the system is always neutrally stable, but different regimes emerge, depending on the size of the system and the level of discretization.",
    "title": "Synchronization and extinction in cyclic games with mixed strategies.",
    "abstract": "We develop a theoretical framework for analyzing ecological models with a multidimensional niche space. Our approach relies on the fact that ecological niches are described by sequences of symbols, which allows us to include multiple phenotypic traits. Ecological drivers, such as competitive exclusion, are modeled by introducing the Hamming distance between two sequences. We show that a suitable transform diagonalizes the community interaction matrix of these models, making it possible to predict the conditions for niche differentiation and, close to the instability onset, the asymptotically long time population distributions of niches. We exemplify our method using the Lotka-Volterra equations with an exponential competition kernel.",
    "title": "Framework for analyzing ecological trait-based models in multidimensional niche spaces.",
    "abstract": "Complex systems may be mechanistically modelled by white-box modeling with using logical deterministic individual-based cellular automata. Mathematical models of complex systems are of three types: black-box (phenomenological), white-box (mechanistic, based on the first principles) and grey-box (mixtures of phenomenological and mechanistic models). Most basic ecological models are of black-box type, including Malthusian, Verhulst, Lotka-Volterra models. In black-box models, the individual-based (mechanistic) mechanisms of population dynamics remain hidden. Here we mechanistically model the S-shaped and double S-shaped population growth of vegetatively propagated rhizomatous lawn grasses. Using purely logical deterministic individual-based cellular automata we create a white-box model. From a general physical standpoint, the vegetative propagation of plants is an analogue of excitation propagation in excitable media. Using the Monte Carlo method, we investigate a role of different initial positioning of an individual in the habitat. We have investigated mechanisms of the single-species population growth limited by habitat size, intraspecific competition, regeneration time and fecundity of individuals in two types of boundary conditions and at two types of fecundity. Besides that, we have compared the S-shaped and J-shaped population growth. We consider this white-box modeling approach as a method of artificial intelligence which works as automatic hyper-logical inference from the first principles of the studied subject. This approach is perspective for direct mechanistic insights into nature of any complex systems.",
    "title": "A white-box model of S-shaped and double S-shaped single-species population growth.",
    "abstract": "We are interested in the impact of natural selection in a prey-predator community. We introduce an individual-based model of the community that takes into account both prey and predator phenotypes. Our aim is to understand the phenotypic coevolution of prey and predators. The community evolves as a multi-type birth and death process with mutations. We first consider the infinite particle approximation of the process without mutation. In this limit, the process can be approximated by a system of differential equations. We prove the existence of a unique globally asymptotically stable equilibrium under specific conditions on the interaction among prey individuals. When mutations are rare, the community evolves on the mutational scale according to a Markovian jump process. This process describes the successive equilibria of the prey-predator community and extends the polymorphic evolutionary sequence to a coevolutionary framework. We then assume that mutations have a small impact on phenotypes and consider the evolution of monomorphic prey and predator populations. The limit of small mutation steps leads to a system of two differential equations which is a version of the canonical equation of adaptive dynamics for the prey-predator coevolution. We illustrate these different limits with an example of prey-predator community that takes into account different prey defense mechanisms. We observe through simulations how these various prey strategies impact the community.",
    "title": "Stochastic eco-evolutionary model of a prey-predator community.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of a local community of competing species with weak immigration from a static regional pool is studied. Implementing the generalized competitive Lotka-Volterra model with demographic noise, a rich dynamics with four qualitatively distinct phases is unfolded. When the overall interspecies competition is weak, the island species recapitulate the mainland species. For higher values of the competition parameter, the system still admits an equilibrium community, but now some of the mainland species are absent on the island. Further increase in competition leads to an intermittent \"disordered\" phase, where the dynamics is controlled by invadable combinations of species and the turnover rate is governed by the migration. Finally, the strong competition phase is glasslike, dominated by uninvadable states and noise-induced transitions. Our model contains, as a special case, the celebrated neutral island theories of Wilson-MacArthur and Hubbell. Moreover, we show that slight deviations from perfect neutrality may lead to each of the phases, as the Hubbell point appears to be quadracritical.",
    "title": "Generalized model of island biodiversity.",
    "abstract": "Key gaps to be filled in population and community ecology are predicting the strength of species interactions and linking pattern with process to understand species coexistence and their relative abundances. In the case of mutualistic webs, like plant-pollinator networks, advances in understanding species abundances are currently limited, mainly owing to the lack of methodological tools to deal with the intrinsic complexity of mutualisms. Here, we propose an aggregation method leading to a simple compartmental mutualistic population model that captures both qualitatively and quantitatively the size-segregated populations observed in a Mediterranean community of nectar-producing plant species and nectar-searching animal species. We analyse the issue of optimal aggregation level and its connection with the trade-off between realism and overparametrization. We show that aggregation of both plants and pollinators into five size classes or compartments leads to a robust model with only two tunable parameters. Moreover, if, in each compartment, (i) the interaction coefficients fulfil the condition of weak mutualism and (ii) the mutualism is facultative for at least one party of the compartment, then the interactions between different compartments are sufficient to guarantee global stability of the equilibrium population.",
    "title": "Predicting abundances of plants and pollinators using a simple compartmental mutualistic model.",
    "abstract": "Incorporating protozoa into population models (from simple predator-prey explorations to complex food web simulations) is of conceptual, ecological, and economic importance. From theoretical and empirical perspectives, we expose unappreciated complexity in the traditional predator-prey model structure and provide a parsimonious solution, especially for protistologists. We focus on how prey abundance alters two key components of models: predator conversion efficiency (e, the proportion of prey converted to predator, before mortality loss) and predator mortality (\u03b4, the portion of the population lost though death). Using a well-established model system (Paramecium and Didinium), we collect data to parameterize a range of existing and novel population models that differ in the functional forms of e and \u03b4. We then compare model simulations to an empirically obtained time-series of predator-prey population dynamics. The analysis indicates that prey-dependent e and \u03b4 should be considered when structuring population models and that both prey and predator biomass also vary with prey abundance. Both of these impact the ability of the model to predict population dynamics and, therefore, should be included in theoretical model evaluations and assessment of ecosystem dynamics associated with biomass flux.",
    "title": "Restructuring fundamental predator-prey models by recognising prey-dependent conversion efficiency and mortality rates.",
    "abstract": "The concept of limiting factors (or regulating factors) succeeded in formulating the well-known principle of competitive exclusion. This paper shows that the concept of limiting factors is helpful not only to formulate the competitive exclusion principle, but also to obtain other ecological insights. To this end, by focusing on a specific community structure, we study the dynamics of Kolmogorov equations and show that it is possible to derive an ecologically insightful result only from the information about interactions between species and limiting factors. Furthermore, we find that the derived result is a generalization of the preceding work by Shigesada, Kawasaki, and Teramoto (1984), who examined a certain Lotka-Volterra equation in a different context.",
    "title": "Dynamics of competitive systems with a single common limiting factor.",
    "abstract": "There is evidence that multiple stable equilibrium states are possible in real-life ecological systems. Phenomenological mathematical models which exhibit such properties can be constructed rather straightforwardly. For instance, for a predator-prey system this result can be achieved through the use of non-monotonic functional response for the predator. However, while formal formulation of such a model is not a problem, the biological justification for such functional responses and models is usually inconclusive. In this note, we explore a conjecture that a multitude of equilibrium states can be caused by an adaptation of animal behaviour to changes of environmental conditions. In order to verify this hypothesis, we consider a simple predator-prey model, which is a straightforward extension of the classic Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model. In this model, we made an intuitively transparent assumption that the prey can change a mode of behaviour in response to the pressure of predation, choosing either \"safe\" of \"risky\" (or \"business as usual\") behaviour. In order to avoid a situation where one of the modes gives an absolute advantage, we introduce the concept of the \"cost of a policy\" into the model. A simple conceptual two-dimensional predator-prey model, which is minimal with this property, and is not relying on odd functional responses, higher dimensionality or behaviour change for the predator, exhibits two stable co-existing equilibrium states with basins of attraction separated by a separatrix of a saddle point.",
    "title": "Adaptive behaviour and multiple equilibrium states in a predator-prey model.",
    "abstract": "Body size of vertebrate herbivores is strongly linked to other life history traits, most notably (1) tolerance of low quality forage and (2) vulnerability to predation, which both impact the composition and dynamics of natural communities. However, no study has thus far explored how the combination of these two body-size related traits affects the long-term composition and dynamics of the herbivore and plant communities. We made a simple model of ordinary differential equations and simulated a grassland system with three herbivore species (small, medium, large) and two predator species (small, large) to investigate how the combination of low-quality tolerance and predation-vulnerability structure the herbivore and plant community. We found that facilitation and competition between different-sized herbivores and predation by especially small predators stimulate coexistence among herbivore species. Furthermore, the interaction between different-sized herbivores and predators generated cyclical succession in the plant community, i.e. alternating periods of short vegetation dominated by high-quality plants, with periods of tall vegetation dominated by low-quality plants. Our results suggest that cyclical succession in plant communities is more likely to occur when a predator predominantly preys on small herbivore species. Large predators also play an important role, as their addition relaxed the set of conditions under which cyclical succession occurred. Consequently, our model predictions suggest that a diverse predator community plays an important role in the long-term dynamics and maintenance of diversity in both the herbivore and plant community.",
    "title": "Cyclical succession in grazed ecosystems: the importance of interactions between different-sized herbivores and different-sized predators.",
    "abstract": "Approaches to Bayesian inference for problems with intractable likelihoods have become increasingly important in recent years. Approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) and \"likelihood free\" Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques are popular methods for tackling inference in these scenarios but such techniques are computationally expensive. In this paper we compare the two approaches to inference, with a particular focus on parameter inference for stochastic kinetic models, widely used in systems biology. Discrete time transition kernels for models of this type are intractable for all but the most trivial systems yet forward simulation is usually straightforward. We discuss the relative merits and drawbacks of each approach whilst considering the computational cost implications and efficiency of these techniques. In order to explore the properties of each approach we examine a range of observation regimes using two example models. We use a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model to explore the impact of full or partial species observations using various time course observations under the assumption of known and unknown measurement error. Further investigation into the impact of observation error is then made using a Schl\u00f6gl system, a test case which exhibits bi-modal state stability in some regions of parameter space.",
    "title": "Likelihood free inference for Markov processes: a comparison.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we consider the problem of parameter inference for Markov jump process (MJP) representations of stochastic kinetic models. Since transition probabilities are intractable for most processes of interest yet forward simulation is straightforward, Bayesian inference typically proceeds through computationally intensive methods such as (particle) MCMC. Such methods ostensibly require the ability to simulate trajectories from the conditioned jump process. When observations are highly informative, use of the forward simulator is likely to be inefficient and may even preclude an exact (simulation based) analysis. We therefore propose three methods for improving the efficiency of simulating conditioned jump processes. A conditioned hazard is derived based on an approximation to the jump process, and used to generate end-point conditioned trajectories for use inside an importance sampling algorithm. We also adapt a recently proposed sequential Monte Carlo scheme to our problem. Essentially, trajectories are reweighted at a set of intermediate time points, with more weight assigned to trajectories that are consistent with the next observation. We consider two implementations of this approach, based on two continuous approximations of the MJP. We compare these constructs for a simple tractable jump process before using them to perform inference for a Lotka-Volterra system. The best performing construct is used to infer the parameters governing a simple model of motility regulation in Bacillus subtilis.",
    "title": "Bayesian inference for Markov jump processes with informative observations.",
    "abstract": "A striking feature of biological pattern generators is their ability to respond immediately to multisensory perturbations by modulating the dwell time at a particular phase of oscillation, which can vary force output, range of motion, or other characteristics of a physical system. Stable heteroclinic channels (SHCs) are a dynamical architecture that can provide such responsiveness to artificial devices such as robots. SHCs are composed of sequences of saddle equilibrium points, which yields exquisite sensitivity. The strength of the vector fields in the neighborhood of these equilibria determines the responsiveness to perturbations and how long trajectories dwell in the vicinity of a saddle. For SHC cycles, the addition of stochastic noise results in oscillation with a regular mean period. In this paper, we parameterize noise-driven Lotka-Volterra SHC cycles such that each saddle can be independently designed to have a desired mean sub-period. The first step in the design process is an analytic approximation, which results in mean sub-periods that are within 2% of the specified sub-period for a typical parameter set. Further, after measuring the resultant sub-periods over sufficient numbers of cycles, the magnitude of the noise can be adjusted to control the mean period with accuracy close to that of the integration step size. With these relationships, SHCs can be more easily employed in engineering and modeling applications. For applications that require smooth state transitions, this parameterization permits each state's distribution of periods to be independently specified. Moreover, for modeling context-dependent behaviors, continuously varying inputs in each state dimension can rapidly precipitate transitions to alter frequency and phase.",
    "title": "Designing responsive pattern generators: stable heteroclinic channel cycles for modeling and control.",
    "abstract": "Infantile autism and schizophrenia are severe multifactorial disorders with a pronounced genetic predisposition. Their pathogeneses are often associated with oxidative stress in the brain. Previously, we established that a cell's resistance to oxidative stress depended on the copy number of transcriptionally active genes for rRNA (ribosomal genes) in the cell's genome. The feature is measured cytogenetically in cultured lymphocytes derived from patients. It varies from 120 up to 190 copies per diploid genome, with an arithmetic mean of 150\u00b14 (SE) copies in a healthy population (n=239), being considerably lower, according to our previous results, in a sample of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (n=49), another multifactorial disease with a proven significant role of oxidative stress in its pathogenesis: from 115 to 165 copies, with a mean of 140\u00b14 (SE). Conversely, a sample of schizophrenic patients (n=42) previously showed a higher value of copy number of active rRNA genes compared with a healthy population: from 145 to 190 copies, with a mean of 170\u00b14. This fact is of special interest in the context of the well-known, but still unexplained phenomenon of the reduced comorbidity rate of schizophrenia and rheumatoid arthritis.\nThe copy number of active ribosomal genes was estimated in a sample of autistic children (n=51). In contrast with the schizophrenic patients studied previously, we found that the values were significantly lower than those in the healthy population: from 125 to 160 copies, with a mean of 142\u00b15. In this work, we suggest a mathematical model of the oxidative stress dynamics on the basis of Lotka-Volterra's approach to predator-prey interactions. In our model, the 'prey' represents reactive oxygen species, whereas the 'predator' simulates molecules of the antioxidant enzymes. The rate of biosynthesis of the latter is limited by the number of ribosomes available, which, in turn, is determined by the copy number of active rRNA genes. Analysis of the model showed the existence of a unique equilibrium point that makes biological sense. The reactive oxygen species level oscillatory approaches this equilibrium value, which inversely depends on the copy number of active rRNA genes.\nOur findings confirm the hypothesis of disturbance of the 'translational homeostasis' in the pathogeneses of autism and schizophrenia, and would help explain why oxidative stress markers are discovered in most autism studies, whereas similar reports related to schizophrenia are far less consistent.",
    "title": "Active ribosomal genes, translational homeostasis and oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and autism.",
    "abstract": "This paper considers an exploitation-competition system in which exploitation is the dominant interaction when the prey is at low density, while competition is dominant when the prey is at high density due to its negative effect on the predator. The two-species system is characterized by differential equations, which are the combination of Lotka-Volterra competitive and predator-prey models. Global dynamics of the model demonstrate some basic properties of exploitation-competition systems: (i) When the growth rate of prey is extremely small, the prey cannot promote the growth of predator. (ii) When the growth rate is small, an obligate predator can survive by preying on the prey, while a facultative predator can approach a high density by the predation. (iii) When the growth rate is intermediate, the predator can approach the maximal density by an intermediate predation. (iv) When the growth rate is large, the predator can persist only if it has a large density and its predation on the prey is big. (v) Intermediate predation is beneficial to the predator under certain parameter range, while over- or under-predation is not good. Extremely big/small predation would lead to extinction of species. Numerical simulations confirm and extend our results.",
    "title": "An exploitation-competition system with negative effect of prey on its predator.",
    "abstract": "In this article we study the inverse problem of finding coefficients of Lotka-Volterra's equations on one given solution. The conditions of the uniqueness and existence of the inverse problem are found.",
    "title": "[Parameter identification for systems of nonlinear differential equations by the example of Lotka-Volterra model].",
    "abstract": "The relationship between the Moran model and stochastic Lotka-Volterra competition (SLVC) model is explored via time scale separation arguments. For neutral systems the two are found to be equivalent at long times. For systems with selective pressure, their behavior differs. It is argued that the SLVC is preferable to the Moran model since in the SLVC population size is regulated by competition, rather than arbitrarily fixed as in the Moran model. As a consequence, ambiguities found in the Moran model associated with the introduction of more complex processes, such as selection, are avoided.",
    "title": "Models of genetic drift as limiting forms of the Lotka-Volterra competition model.",
    "abstract": "Predator and prey isoclines are estimated from data on yeast-protist population dynamics (Gause et al., 1936). Regression analysis shows that the prey isocline is best fitted by an L-shaped function that has a vertical and a horizontal part. The predator isocline is vertical. This shape of isoclines corresponds with the Lotka-Volterra and the Rosenzweig-MacArthur predator-prey models that assume a prey refuge. These results further support the idea that a prey refuge changes the prey isocline of predator-prey models from a horizontal to an L-shaped curve. Such a shape of the prey isocline effectively bounds amplitude of predator-prey oscillations, thus promotes species coexistence.",
    "title": "L-shaped prey isocline in the Gause predator-prey experiments with a prey refuge.",
    "abstract": "Ecosystems greatly vary in their species composition and interactions, yet they all show remarkable resilience to external influences. Recent experiments have highlighted the significant effects of spatial structure and connectivity on the extinction and survival of species. It has also been emphasized lately that in order to study extinction dynamics reliably, it is essential to incorporate stochasticity, and in particular the discrete nature of populations, into the model. Accordingly, we applied a bottom-up modeling approach that includes both spatial features and stochastic interactions to study survival mechanisms of species. Using the simplest spatial extension of the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with competition, subject to demographic and environmental noise, we were able to systematically study emergent properties of this rich system. By scanning the relevant parameter space, we show that both survival and extinction processes often result from a combination of habitat fragmentation and individual rare events of recolonization.",
    "title": "Species survival emerge from rare events of individual migration.",
    "abstract": "We derive functional responses under the assumption that predators and prey are engaged in a space race in which prey avoid patches with many predators and predators avoid patches with few or no prey. The resulting functional response models have a simple structure and include functions describing how the emigration of prey and predators depend on interspecific densities. As such, they provide a link between dispersal behaviours and community dynamics. The derived functional response is general but is here modelled in accordance with empirically documented emigration responses. We find that the prey emigration response to predators has stabilizing effects similar to that of the DeAngelis-Beddington functional response, and that the predator emigration response to prey has destabilizing effects similar to that of the Holling type II response. A stability criterion describing the net effect of the two emigration responses on a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system is presented. The winner of the space race (i.e. whether predators or prey are favoured) is determined by the relationship between the slopes of the species' emigration responses. It is predicted that predators win the space race in poor habitats, where predator and prey densities are low, and that prey are more successful in richer habitats.",
    "title": "Space race functional responses.",
    "abstract": "We construct and study certain Liouville integrable, superintegrable and non-commutative integrable systems, which are associated with multi-sums of products.",
    "title": "Integrable and superintegrable systems associated with multi-sums of products.",
    "abstract": "A simple modification of the Rosenzweig-MacArthur predator (zooplankton)-prey (phytoplankton) model with the interference of the predators by adding the effect of nanoparticles is proposed and analyzed. It is assumed that the effect of these particles has a potential to reduce the maximum physiological per-capita growth rate of the prey. The dynamics of nanoparticles is assumed to follow a simple Lotka-Volterra uptake term. Our study suggests that nanoparticle induce growth suppression of phytoplankton population can destabilize the system which leads to limit cycle oscillation. We also observe that if the contact rate of nanoparticles and phytoplankton increases, then the equilibrium densities of phytoplankton as well as zooplankton decrease. Furthermore, we observe that the depletion/removal of nanoparticles from the aquatic system plays a crucial role for the stable coexistence of both populations. Our investigation with various types of functional response suggests that Beddington functional response is the most appropriate representation of the interaction of phytoplankton-nanoparticles in comparison to other widely used functional responses.",
    "title": "The effect of nanoparticles on plankton dynamics: a mathematical model.",
    "abstract": "In the system of intraguild predation (IGP) we are concerned with, species that are in a predator-prey relationship, also compete for shared resources (space or food). While several models have been established to characterize IGP, mechanisms by which IG prey and IG predator can coexist in IGP systems with spatial competition, have not been shown. This paper considers an IGP model, which is derived from reactions on lattice and has a form similar to that of Lotka-Volterra equations. Dynamics of the model demonstrate properties of IGP and mechanisms by which the IGP leads to coexistence of species and occurrence of alternative states. Intermediate predation is shown to lead to persistence of the predator, while extremely big predation can lead to extinction of one/both species and extremely small predation can lead to extinction of the predator. Numerical computations confirm and extend our results. While empirical observations typically exhibit coexistence of IG predator and IG prey, theoretical analysis in this work demonstrates exact conditions under which this coexistence can occur.",
    "title": "Population dynamics of intraguild predation in a lattice gas system.",
    "abstract": "The competitive growth of Listeria monocytogenes and Lactobacillus on vacuum-packaged chilled pork (VPCP) was studied by the use of Real-time PCR assay and selective culture counting method, where the Jameson-effect model and modified Lotka-Volterra model were chosen for the fitting of growth data. Real-time PCR assay was successfully applied to model the growth of the L.monocytogenes and Lactobacillus respectively on VPCP. The Jameson effect was occurred between L.monocytogenes and Lactobacillus when they co-existed in the same culture, and Lactobacillus clearly induced an early stationary phase of L. monocytogenes. The Jameson-effect model could be used to fit the growth curves of L. monocytogenes and Lactobacillus on VPCP. Thus the modified Lotka-Volterra competition model could be used to evaluate the interaction of two bacterial populations during the growth process, and found that the influence from Lactobacillus on L. monocytogenes was much higher than L. monocytogenes on Lactobacillus through the interaction coefficients. In conclusion, bacterial interactions need to be considered in microbial predictive models, which will provide a more practical assessment in predictive microbiology, and the model for the prediction based on the Real-time PCR assay can be used in future studies, especially for research of interaction models.",
    "title": "Development of interspecific competition models for the growth of Listeria monocytogenes and Lactobacillus on vacuum-packaged chilled pork by quantitative real-time PCR.",
    "abstract": "A novel competition model developed with the new logistic model and the Lotka-Volterra model successfully predicted the growth of bacteria in mixed culture using the mesophiles Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Salmonella at a constant temperature in our previous studies. In this study, we further studied the prediction of the growth of those bacteria in mixed culture at dynamic temperatures with various initial populations with the competition model. First, we studied the growth kinetics of the species in a monoculture at various constant temperatures ranging from 16\u2103 to 32\u2103. With the analyzed data in the monoculture, we then examined the prediction of bacterial growth in mixed culture with two and three species. The growth of the bacteria in the mixed culture at dynamic temperatures was successfully predicted with the model. The residuals between the observed and predicted populations at the data points were <0.5 log at most points, being 83.3% and 84.2% for the two-species mixture and the three-species mixture, respectively. The present study showed that the model could be applied to the competitive growth in mixed culture at dynamic temperature patterns.",
    "title": "Prediction of competitive microbial growth in mixed culture at dynamic temperature patterns.",
    "abstract": "This paper deals with the effect of interspecific competition on the dynamics of neutral genetic diversity in a range-expanding population. The spread of an invasive species in an environment already hosting a resident competitor is described by a traveling wave solution with minimal speed, u(t,x) = U(x - c \u2217 t), of a diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition model. The description of the dynamics of neutral genetic fractions in this wave is based on a decomposition of the wave into several components, as proposed by Roques et al. (Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 109(23):8828-8833, 2012). Our analytical results reveal that the wave can be either the pulled type, corresponding to strong erosion of the diversity, or the pushed type, corresponding to maintenance of the initial diversity. The pulled/pushed nature of the wave depends on the linear or nonlinear nature of the speed c *. Our results show that, for sufficiently strong competition, the speed is nonlinear, and therefore all of the genetic diversity in the invasive population is maintained. Conversely, in the absence of competition, or when competition is mild, the speed is linear, which means that only the furthest forward fraction in the initial invasive population eventually remains in the colonization front. Our numerical results also show that the sufficient conditions of Lewis et al. (J Math Biol 45(3):219-233, 2002) and Huang (J Dyn Differ Equ 22(2):285-297, 2010) for the linearity of the speed c * can still be improved, and they show that nonlinear speeds occur across a wide region of the parameter space, providing a counterpoint to recent analytical results suggesting that nonlinear speeds only occur in certain limiting cases.",
    "title": "The effect of competition on the neutral intraspecific diversity of invasive species.",
    "abstract": "This paper deals with a delayed reaction-diffusion three-species Lotka-Volterra model with interval biological parameters and harvesting. Sufficient conditions for the local stability of the positive equilibrium and the existence of Hopf bifurcation are obtained by analyzing the associated characteristic equation. Furthermore, formulas for determining the direction of Hopf bifurcation and the stability of the bifurcating periodic solutions are derived by applying the normal form method and center manifold theorem. Then an optimal control problem has been considered. Finally, numerical simulation results are presented to validate the theoretical analysis. Numerical evidence shows that the presence of harvesting can impact the existence of species and over harvesting can result in the extinction of the prey or the predator which is in line with reality.",
    "title": "Bifurcation and optimal harvesting of a diffusive predator-prey system with delays and interval biological parameters.",
    "abstract": "Modeling under the framework of ecological stoichiometric allows the investigation of the effects of food quality on food web population dynamics. Recent discoveries in ecological stoichiometry suggest that grazer dynamics are affected by insufficient food nutrient content (low phosphorus (P)/carbon (C) ratio) as well as excess food nutrient content (high P:C). This phenomenon is known as the \"stoichiometric knife edge.\" While previous models have captured this phenomenon, they do not explicitly track P in the producer or in the media that supports the producer, which brings questions to the validity of their predictions. Here, we extend a Lotka-Volterra-type stoichiometric model by mechanistically deriving and tracking P in the producer and free P in the environment in order to investigate the growth response of Daphnia to algae of varying P:C ratios. Bifurcation analysis and numerical simulations of the full model, that explicitly tracks phosphorus, lead to quantitative different predictions than previous models that neglect to track free nutrients. The full model shows that the fate of the grazer population can be very sensitive to excess nutrient concentrations. Dynamical free nutrient pool seems to induce extreme grazer population density changes when total nutrient is in an intermediate range.",
    "title": "Dynamics of a producer-grazer model incorporating the effects of excess food nutrient content on grazer's growth.",
    "abstract": "The two-species population dynamics model is the simplest paradigm of inter- and intra-species interaction. Here, we present a generalized Lotka-Volterra model with intraspecific competition, which retrieves as particular cases, some well-known models. The generalization parameter is related to the species habitat dimensionality and their interaction range. Contrary to standard models, the species coupling parameters are general, not restricted to non-negative values. Therefore, they may represent different ecological regimes, which are derived from the asymptotic solution stability analysis and are represented in a phase diagram. In this diagram, we have identified a forbidden region in the mutualism regime, and a survival/extinction transition with dependence on initial conditions for the competition regime. Also, we shed light on two types of predation and competition: weak, if there are species coexistence, or strong, if at least one species is extinguished.",
    "title": "Richards-like two species population dynamics model.",
    "abstract": "Punishment, especially selfish punishment, has recently been identified as a potent promoter in sustaining or even enhancing the cooperation among unrelated individuals. However, without other key mechanisms, the first-order social dilemma and second-order social dilemma are still two enduring conundrums in biology and the social sciences even with the presence of punishment. In the present study, we investigate a spatial evolutionary four-strategy prisoner\u05f3s dilemma game model with avoiding mechanism, where the four strategies are cooperation, defection, altruistic and selfish punishment. By introducing the low level of random mutation of strategies, we demonstrate that the presence of selfish punishment with avoiding mechanism can alleviate the two kinds of social dilemmas for various parametrizations. In addition, we propose an extended pair approximation method, whose solutions can essentially estimate the dynamical behaviors and final evolutionary frequencies of the four strategies. At last, considering the analogy between our model and the classical Lotka-Volterra system, we introduce interaction webs based on the spatial replicator dynamics and the transformed payoff matrix to qualitatively characterize the emergent co-exist strategy phases, and its validity are supported by extensive simulations.",
    "title": "Selfish punishment with avoiding mechanism can alleviate both first-order and second-order social dilemma.",
    "abstract": "Human associated microbial communities exert tremendous influence over human health and disease. With modern metagenomic sequencing methods it is now possible to follow the relative abundance of microbes in a community over time. These microbial communities exhibit rich ecological dynamics and an important goal of microbial ecology is to infer the ecological interactions between species directly from sequence data. Any algorithm for inferring ecological interactions must overcome three major obstacles: 1) a correlation between the abundances of two species does not imply that those species are interacting, 2) the sum constraint on the relative abundances obtained from metagenomic studies makes it difficult to infer the parameters in timeseries models, and 3) errors due to experimental uncertainty, or mis-assignment of sequencing reads into operational taxonomic units, bias inferences of species interactions due to a statistical problem called \"errors-in-variables\". Here we introduce an approach, Learning Interactions from MIcrobial Time Series (LIMITS), that overcomes these obstacles. LIMITS uses sparse linear regression with boostrap aggregation to infer a discrete-time Lotka-Volterra model for microbial dynamics. We tested LIMITS on synthetic data and showed that it could reliably infer the topology of the inter-species ecological interactions. We then used LIMITS to characterize the species interactions in the gut microbiomes of two individuals and found that the interaction networks varied significantly between individuals. Furthermore, we found that the interaction networks of the two individuals are dominated by distinct \"keystone species\", Bacteroides fragilis and Bacteroided stercosis, that have a disproportionate influence on the structure of the gut microbiome even though they are only found in moderate abundance. Based on our results, we hypothesize that the abundances of certain keystone species may be responsible for individuality in the human gut microbiome.",
    "title": "Identifying keystone species in the human gut microbiome from metagenomic timeseries using sparse linear regression.",
    "abstract": "We use the normal form theory, averaging method, and integral manifold theorem to study the existence of limit cycles in Lotka-Volterra systems and the existence of invariant tori in quadratic systems in \u211d(3).",
    "title": "The existence of periodic orbits and invariant tori for some 3-dimensional quadratic systems.",
    "abstract": "Prediction of microbial growth in mixed culture was studied with a competition model that we had developed recently. The model, which is composed of the new logistic model and the Lotka-Volterra model, is shown to successfully describe the microbial growth of two species in mixed culture using Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Salmonella. With the parameter values of the model obtained from the experimental data on monoculture and mixed culture with two species, it then succeeded in predicting the simultaneous growth of the three species in mixed culture inoculated with various cell concentrations. To our knowledge, it is the first time for a prediction model for multiple (three) microbial species to be reported. The model, which is not built on any premise for specific microorganisms, may become a basic competition model for microorganisms in food and food materials.",
    "title": "Prediction of microbial growth in mixed culture with a competition model.",
    "abstract": "A novel competition model for describing bacterial growth in mixed culture was developed in this study. Several model candidates were made with our logistic growth model that precisely describes the growth of a monoculture of bacteria. These candidates were then evaluated for the usefulness in describing growth of two competing species in mixed culture using Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Salmonella. Bacterial cells of two species grew at initial doses of 10(3), 10(4), and 10(5) CFU/g at 28\u00baC. Among the candidates, a model where the Lotka-Volterra model, a general competition model in ecology, was incorporated as a new term in our growth model was the best for describing all types of growth of two competitors in mixed culture. Moreover, the values for the competition coefficient in the model were stable at various combinations of the initial populations of the species. The Baranyi model could also successfully describe the above types of growth in mixed culture when it was coupled with the Gimenez and Dalgaard model. However, the values for the competition coefficients in the competition model varied with the conditions. The present study suggested that our model could be a basic model for describing microbial competition.",
    "title": "Development of a competition model for microbial growth in mixed culture.",
    "abstract": "The evolution of an incompletely connected system of species with speciation and extinction is investigated in terms of random replicators. It is found that evolving random replicator systems with speciation do become large and complex, depending on speciation parameters. Antisymmetric interactions result in large systems, whereas systems with symmetric interactions remain small. A co-dominating feature is within-species interaction pressure: large within-species interaction increases species diversity. Average fitness evolves in all systems, however symmetry and connectivity evolve in small systems only. Newcomers get extinct almost immediately in symmetric systems. The distribution in species lifetimes is determined for antisymmetric systems. The replicator systems investigated do not show any sign of self-organized criticality. The generalized Lotka-Volterra system is shown to be a tedious way of implementing the replicator system.",
    "title": "Symmetry of interactions rules in incompletely connected random replicator ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "Co-occurrence networks produced from microbial survey sequencing data are frequently used to identify interactions between community members. While this approach has potential to reveal ecological processes, it has been insufficiently validated due to the technical limitations inherent in studying complex microbial ecosystems. Here, we simulate multi-species microbial communities with known interaction patterns using generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamics. We then construct co-occurrence networks and evaluate how well networks reveal the underlying interactions and how experimental and ecological parameters can affect network inference and interpretation. We find that co-occurrence networks can recapitulate interaction networks under certain conditions, but that they lose interpretability when the effects of habitat filtering become significant. We demonstrate that networks suffer from local hot spots of spurious correlation in the neighborhood of hub species that engage in many interactions. We also identify topological features associated with keystone species in co-occurrence networks. This study provides a substantiated framework to guide environmental microbiologists in the construction and interpretation of co-occurrence networks from microbial survey datasets.",
    "title": "Deciphering microbial interactions and detecting keystone species with co-occurrence networks.",
    "abstract": "The ability to explain biological phenomena with mathematics and to generate predictions from mathematical models is critical for understanding and controlling natural systems. Concurrently, the rise in open-source software has greatly increased the ease at which researchers can implement their own mathematical models. With a reasonably sound understanding of mathematics and programming skills, a researcher can quickly and easily use such tools for their own work. The purpose of this chapter is to expose the reader to one such tool, the open-source programming language R, and to demonstrate its practical application to studying population dynamics. We use the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey dynamics as an example.",
    "title": "Modeling community population dynamics with the open-source language R.",
    "abstract": "Present life portrays a two-tier phenomenology: molecules compose supramolecular structures, such as cells or organisms, which in turn portray population behaviors, including selection, evolution and ecological dynamics. Prebiotic models have often focused on evolution in populations of self-replicating molecules, without explicitly invoking the intermediate molecular-to-supramolecular transition. Here, we explore a prebiotic model that allows one to relate parameters of chemical interaction networks within molecular assemblies to emergent population dynamics. We use the graded autocatalysis replication domain (GARD) model, which simulates the network dynamics within amphiphile-containing molecular assemblies, and exhibits quasi-stationary compositional states termed compotype species. These grow by catalyzed accretion, divide and propagate their compositional information to progeny in a replication-like manner. The model allows us to ask how molecular network parameters influence assembly evolution and population dynamics parameters. In 1000 computer simulations, each embodying different parameter set of the global chemical interaction network parameters, we observed a wide range of behaviors. These were analyzed by a multi species logistic model often used for analyzing population ecology (r-K or Lotka-Volterra competition model). We found that compotypes with a larger intrinsic molecular repertoire show a higher intrinsic growth (r) and lower carrying capacity (K), as well as lower replication fidelity. This supports a prebiotic scenario initiated by fast-replicating assemblies with a high molecular diversity, evolving into more faithful replicators with narrower molecular repertoires.",
    "title": "Multispecies population dynamics of prebiotic compositional assemblies.",
    "abstract": "Cooperation between species is often regarded to mean that the increase of each species promotes the growth of the other. The well-known cooperative model is the Lotka-Volterra equations (LVEs). In the LVEs, population densities of species increase infinitely as the cooperation is strong, which is called the divergence problem. Moreover, LVEs never exhibit an Allee effect in the case of obligate cooperation. In order to avoid these problems, several models have been established although most of them are rather complex. In this paper, we consider a cooperative system of two species with bidirectional interactions, in which each species also has negative feedback on the other. Population densities of the species will not increase infinitely because of the limited resource and negative feedback. Then, we focus on an extended lattice model of cooperation, which is deduced from reactions on lattice and has the same form as that of LVEs. In the case of obligate cooperation, the model predicts an Allee effect. Global dynamics of the system exhibit essential features of cooperation and basic mechanisms by which the cooperation can lead to coexistence/extinction of species. Intermediate cooperation is shown to be beneficial in cooperation under certain conditions, while extremely strong cooperation is demonstrated to lead to extinction of one/both species. Numerical simulations confirm and extend our results.",
    "title": "A cooperative system of two species with bidirectional interactions.",
    "abstract": "A hallmark of Lotka-Volterra models, and other ecological models of predator-prey interactions, is that in predator-prey cycles, peaks in prey abundance precede peaks in predator abundance. Such models typically assume that species life history traits are fixed over ecologically relevant time scales. However, the coevolution of predator and prey traits has been shown to alter the community dynamics of natural systems, leading to novel dynamics including antiphase and cryptic cycles. Here, using an eco-coevolutionary model, we show that predator-prey coevolution can also drive population cycles where the opposite of canonical Lotka-Volterra oscillations occurs: predator peaks precede prey peaks. These reversed cycles arise when selection favors extreme phenotypes, predator offense is costly, and prey defense is effective against low-offense predators. We present multiple datasets from phage-cholera, mink-muskrat, and gyrfalcon-rock ptarmigan systems that exhibit reversed-peak ordering. Our results suggest that such cycles are a potential signature of predator-prey coevolution and reveal unique ways in which predator-prey coevolution can shape, and possibly reverse, community dynamics.",
    "title": "Coevolution can reverse predator-prey cycles.",
    "abstract": "We study the conditions under which species interaction, as described by continuous versions of the competitive Lotka-Volterra model (namely the nonlocal Kolmogorov-Fisher model, and its differential approximation), can support the existence of localized states, i.e., patches of species with enhanced population surrounded in niche space by species at smaller densities. These states would arise from species interaction, and not by any preferred niche location or better fitness. In contrast to previous works we include only quadratic nonlinearities, so that the localized patches appear on a background of homogeneously distributed species coexistence, instead of on top of the no-species empty state. For the differential model we find and describe in detail the stable localized states. For the full nonlocal model, however, competitive interactions alone do not allow the conditions for the observation of self-localized states, and we show how the inclusion of additional facilitative interactions leads to the appearance of them.",
    "title": "Self-localized states in species competition.",
    "abstract": "Many urban phenomena exhibit remarkable regularity in the form of nonlinear scaling behaviors, but their implications on a system of networked cities has never been investigated. Such knowledge is crucial for our ability to harness the complexity of urban processes to further sustainability science. In this paper, we develop a dynamical modeling framework that embeds population-resource dynamics-a generalized Lotka-Volterra system with modifications to incorporate the urban scaling behaviors-in complex networks in which cities may be linked to the resources of other cities and people may migrate in pursuit of higher welfare. We find that isolated cities (i.e., no migration) are susceptible to collapse if they do not have access to adequate resources. Links to other cities may help cities that would otherwise collapse due to insufficient resources. The effects of inter-city links, however, can vary due to the interplay between the nonlinear scaling behaviors and network structure. The long-term population level of a city is, in many settings, largely a function of the city's access to resources over which the city has little or no competition. Nonetheless, careful investigation of dynamics is required to gain mechanistic understanding of a particular city-resource network because cities and resources may collapse and the scaling behaviors may influence the effects of inter-city links, thereby distorting what topological metrics really measure.",
    "title": "Living in a network of scaling cities and finite resources.",
    "abstract": "We introduce a stochastic individual model for the spatial behavior of an animal population of dispersive and competitive species, considering various kinds of biological effects, such as heterogeneity of environmental conditions, mutual attractive or repulsive interactions between individuals or competition between them for resources. As a consequence of the study of the large population limit, global existence of a nonnegative weak solution to a multidimensional parabolic strongly coupled model of competing species is proved. The main new feature of the corresponding integro-differential equation is the nonlocal nonlinearity appearing in the diffusion terms, which may depend on the spatial densities of all population types. Moreover, the diffusion matrix is generally not strictly positive definite and the cross-diffusion effect allows for influences growing linearly with the subpopulations' sizes. We prove uniqueness of the finite measure-valued solution and give conditions under which the solution takes values in a functional space. We then make the competition kernels converge to a Dirac measure and obtain the existence of a solution to a locally competitive version of the previous equation. The techniques are essentially based on the underlying stochastic flow related to the dispersive part of the dynamics, and the use of suitable dual distances in the space of finite measures.",
    "title": "Non local Lotka-Volterra system with cross-diffusion in an heterogeneous medium.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we consider the problem of estimating parameters in ordinary differential equations given discrete time experimental data. The impact of going from an ordinary to a stochastic differential equation setting is investigated as a tool to overcome the problem of local minima in the objective function. Using two different models, it is demonstrated that by allowing noise in the underlying model itself, the objective functions to be minimized in the parameter estimation procedures are regularized in the sense that the number of local minima is reduced and better convergence is achieved. The advantage of using stochastic differential equations is that the actual states in the model are predicted from data and this will allow the prediction to stay close to data even when the parameters in the model is incorrect. The extended Kalman filter is used as a state estimator and sensitivity equations are provided to give an accurate calculation of the gradient of the objective function. The method is illustrated using in silico data from the FitzHugh-Nagumo model for excitable media and the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system. The proposed method performs well on the models considered, and is able to regularize the objective function in both models. This leads to parameter estimation problems with fewer local minima which can be solved by efficient gradient-based methods.",
    "title": "Stochastic differential equations as a tool to regularize the parameter estimation problem for continuous time dynamical systems given discrete time measurements.",
    "abstract": "There are two dominant approaches to describe and understand the anatomy of complete health and well-being systems internationally. Yet, neither approach has been able to either predict or explain occasional but dramatic crises in health and well-being systems around the world and in developed emerging market or developing country contexts. As the impacts of such events can be measured not simply in terms of their social and economic consequences but also public health crises, there is a clear need to look for and formulate an alternative approach. This paper examines multi-disciplinary theoretical evidence to suggest that health systems exhibit natural and observable systemic and long cycle characteristics that can be modelled. A health and well-being system model of two slowly evolving anthropological network sub-systems is defined. The first network sub-system consists of organised professional networks of exclusive suppliers of health and well-being services. The second network sub-system consists of communities organising themselves to resource those exclusive services. Together these two network sub-systems interact to form the specific (sovereign) health and well-being systems we know today. But the core of a truly 'complex adaptive system' can also be identified and a simplified two sub-system model of recurring Lotka-Volterra predator-prey cycles is specified. The implications of such an adaptive and evolving model of system anatomy for effective public health, social security insurance and well-being systems governance could be considerable.",
    "title": "A Network Based Theory of Health Systems and Cycles of Well-being.",
    "abstract": "Apart from interacting, prey and predators may also avoid each other by moving into refuges where they lack food, yet survive by switching to an energy-saving physiological state. Lotka-Volterra models of predator-prey interactions ignore this option. Therefore, we have modelled this game of 'joining versus opting out' by extending Lotka-Volterra models to include portions of populations not in interaction and with different energy dynamics. Given this setting, the prey's decisions to join or to opt out influence those of the predator and vice versa, causing the set of possible strategies to be complex and large. However, using game theory, we analysed and published two models showing (i) which strategies are best for the prey population given the predator's strategy, and (ii) which are best for prey and predator populations simultaneously. The predicted best strategies appear to match empirical observations on plant-inhabiting predator and prey mites. Here, we consider a plausible third model that does not take energy dynamics into account, but appears to yield contrasting predictions. This supports our assumption to extend Lotka-Volterra models with 'interaction-dependent' energy dynamics, but more work is required to prove that it is essential and that what is best for the population is also best for the individual.",
    "title": "Joining or opting out of a Lotka-Volterra game between predators and prey: does the best strategy depend on modelling energy lost and gained?",
    "abstract": "Functional response estimation and population tracking in predator-prey systems are critical problems in ecology. In this paper we consider a stochastic predator-prey system with a Lotka-Volterra functional response and propose a particle filtering method for: (a) estimating the behavioral parameter representing the rate of effective search per predator in the functional response and (b) forecasting the population biomass using field data. In particular, the proposed technique combines a sequential Monte Carlo sampling scheme for tracking the time-varying biomass with the analytical integration of the unknown behavioral parameter. In order to assess the performance of the method, we show results for both synthetic and observed data collected in an acarine predator-prey system, namely the pest mite Tetranychus urticae and the predatory mite Phytoseiulus persimilis.",
    "title": "A Rao-Blackwellized particle filter for joint parameter estimation and biomass tracking in a stochastic predator-prey system.",
    "abstract": "In this study we model population dynamics in a three-species food web with heterogeneous resources and intraguild predation by using a nonspatial Lotka-Volterra system with a density-dependent interaction of resource items. The model consists of two predators with an intraguild predation (IGP) relation competing for a common resource. The resource is subdivided into subpopulations of different quality that are distinguished by grazing rates of the two predators, contact rates between subpopulations and mortality rates. The proposed system describes an exchange of traits between species from distinct subpopulations by using a species interaction term. In particular, we examine the percentage of stable coexistence solutions versus resource carrying capacity and contact rates between distinct resource pools. We also present a numerical comparison of the percentage of stable food webs found for different numbers of subpopulations. While at high enrichment no stable coexistence was found in the IGP system with a single resource, our model predicts a stable coexistence of two IGP-related predators and resources at high and intermediate enrichment already at a low contact rate between subpopulations.",
    "title": "Stable coexistence in a Lotka-Volterra model with heterogeneous resources and intraguild predation.",
    "abstract": "Hairston, Slobodkin, and Smith conjectured that top down forces act on food chains, which opposed the previously accepted theory that bottom up forces exclusively dictate the dynamics of populations. We model food chains using the Lotka-Volterra predation model and derive sustainability constants which determine which species will persist or go extinct. Further, we show that the productivity of a sustainable food chain with even trophic levels is predator regulated, or top down, while a sustainable food chain with odd trophic levels is resource limited, which is bottom up, which is consistent with current ecological theory.",
    "title": "Effect of parity on productivity and sustainability of Lotka-Volterra food chains: bounded orbits in food chains.",
    "abstract": "The intestinal microbiota is a microbial ecosystem of crucial importance to human health. Understanding how the microbiota confers resistance against enteric pathogens and how antibiotics disrupt that resistance is key to the prevention and cure of intestinal infections. We present a novel method to infer microbial community ecology directly from time-resolved metagenomics. This method extends generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamics to account for external perturbations. Data from recent experiments on antibiotic-mediated Clostridium difficile infection is analyzed to quantify microbial interactions, commensal-pathogen interactions, and the effect of the antibiotic on the community. Stability analysis reveals that the microbiota is intrinsically stable, explaining how antibiotic perturbations and C. difficile inoculation can produce catastrophic shifts that persist even after removal of the perturbations. Importantly, the analysis suggests a subnetwork of bacterial groups implicated in protection against C. difficile. Due to its generality, our method can be applied to any high-resolution ecological time-series data to infer community structure and response to external stimuli.",
    "title": "Ecological modeling from time-series inference: insight into dynamics and stability of intestinal microbiota.",
    "abstract": "Explaining the coexistence of multiple species in the competition and predation theatre has proven a great challenge. Traditional intraguild predation (IGP) models have only relatively small regions of stable coexistence of all species. Here, we investigate potential additional mechanisms that extend these regions of stable coexistence. We used a 3-species Lotka-Volterra system to which we added an interaction term to model a unidirectional facilitative relationship between the two predators in the IGP. In this modelling study the IG predator was able to precondition a part of the common resource by an instantaneous manipulation, which resulted in the immobilization of the resource species. This mechanism of immobilization facilitated the resource uptake by the IG prey and thus increased its growth rates even in the presence of the common predator. The facilitative relationship of the IG prey by the IG predator produced a stable coexistence of both predators even though the IG prey was an inferior competitor for a common resource, which cannot be attained with the traditional IGP models. Furthermore, our model predicted a 3-species stable coexistence even at high enrichment where no coexistence was found in the basic IGP model. Thus, we showed that diversity of resource traits could significantly alter emergent community patterns via shifts in exploitative competition of IGP-related predators. The described mechanism could potentially lead to a higher efficiency in exploitation of common resources and thus promote higher diversity in a real community.",
    "title": "Facilitation of intraguild prey by its intraguild predator in a three-species Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "This study assessed the dynamics of predation by Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus HD 100. Predation tests with two different bioluminescent strains of Escherichia coli, one expressing a heat-labile bacterial luciferase and the other a heat-stable form, showed near identical losses from both, indicating that protein expression and stability are not responsible for the \"shutting-off\" of the prey bioluminescence (BL). Furthermore, it was found that the loss in the prey BL was not proportional with the predator-to-prey ratio (PPR), with significantly greater losses seen as this value was increased. This suggests that other factors also play a role in lowering the prey BL. The loss in BL, however, was very consistent within nine independent experiments to the point that we were able to reliably estimate the predator numbers within only 1 h when present at a PPR of 6 or higher, Using a fluorescent prey, we found that premature lysis of the prey occurs at a significant level and was more prominent as the PPR ratio increased. Based upon the supernatant fluorescent signal, even a relatively low PPR of 10-20 led to approximately 5% of the prey population being prematurely lysed within 1 h, while a PPR of 90 led to nearly 15% lysis. Consequently, we developed a modified Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model that accounted for this lysis and is able to reliably estimate the prey and bdelloplast populations for a wide range of PPRs.",
    "title": "Shedding light on microbial predator-prey population dynamics using a quantitative bioluminescence assay.",
    "abstract": "Host-parasite coevolution is generally believed to follow Red Queen dynamics consisting of ongoing oscillations in the frequencies of interacting host and parasite alleles. This belief is founded on previous theoretical work, which assumes infinite or constant population size. To what extent are such sustained oscillations realistic?\nHere, we use a related mathematical modeling approach to demonstrate that ongoing Red Queen dynamics is unlikely. In fact, they collapse rapidly when two critical pieces of realism are acknowledged: (i) population size fluctuations, caused by the antagonism of the interaction in concordance with the Lotka-Volterra relationship; and (ii) stochasticity, acting in any finite population. Together, these two factors cause fast allele fixation. Fixation is not restricted to common alleles, as expected from drift, but also seen for originally rare alleles under a wide parameter space, potentially facilitating spread of novel variants.\nOur results call for a paradigm shift in our understanding of host-parasite coevolution, strongly suggesting that these are driven by recurrent selective sweeps rather than continuous allele oscillations.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra dynamics kills the Red Queen: population size fluctuations and associated stochasticity dramatically change host-parasite coevolution.",
    "abstract": "The objective of this paper is to study an optimal resource management problem for some classes of tritrophic systems composed by autotrophic resources (plants), bottom level consumers (herbivores) and top level consumers (humans). The first class of systems we discuss are linear chains, in which biomass flows from plants to herbivores, and from herbivores to humans. In the second class of systems humans are omnivorous and hence compete with herbivores for plant resources. Finally, in the third class of systems humans are omnivorous, but the plant resources are partitioned so that humans and herbivores do not complete for the same ones. The three trophic chains are expressed as Lotka-Volterra models, which seems to be a suitable choice in contexts where there is a shortage of food for the consumers. Our model parameters are taken from the literature on agro-pastoral systems in Sub-Saharan Africa.",
    "title": "Stability and optimal control for some classes of tritrophic systems.",
    "abstract": "Environmentally transmitted pathogens face ecological interactions (e.g., competition, predation, parasitism) in the outside-host environment and host immune system during infection. Despite the ubiquitousness of environmental opportunist pathogens, traditional epidemiology focuses on obligatory pathogens incapable of environmental growth. Here we ask how competitive interactions in the outside-host environment affect the dynamics of an opportunist pathogen. We present a model coupling the classical SI and Lotka-Volterra competition models. In this model we compare a linear infectivity response and a sigmoidal infectivity response. An important assumption is that pathogen virulence is traded off with competitive ability in the environment. Removing this trade-off easily results in host extinction. The sigmoidal response is associated with catastrophic appearances of disease outbreaks when outside-host species richness, or overall competition pressure, decreases. This indicates that alleviating outside-host competition with antibacterial substances that also target the competitors can have unexpected outcomes by providing benefits for opportunist pathogens. These findings may help in developing alternative ways of controlling environmental opportunist pathogens.",
    "title": "Loss of competition in the outside host environment generates outbreaks of environmental opportunist pathogens.",
    "abstract": "The biodiversity loss of phytoplankton with eutrophication has been reported in many aquatic ecosystems, e.g., water pollution and red tides. This phenomenon seems similar, but different from the paradox of enrichment via trophic interactions, e.g., predator-prey systems. We here propose the paradox of enrichment by induced competitive interactions using multiple contact process (a lattice Lotka-Volterra competition model). Simulation results demonstrate how eutrophication invokes more competitions in a competitive ecosystem resulting in the loss of phytoplankton diversity in ecological time. The paradox is enhanced under local interactions, indicating that the limited dispersal of phytoplankton reduces interspecific competition greatly. Thus, the paradox of enrichment appears when eutrophication destroys an ecosystem either by elevated interspecific competition within a trophic level and/or destabilization by trophic interactions. Unless eutrophication due to human activities is ceased, the world's aquatic ecosystems will be at risk.",
    "title": "The paradox of enrichment in phytoplankton by induced competitive interactions.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we elucidate how small-scale movements, such as those associated with searching for food and avoiding predators, affect the stability of predator-prey dynamics. We investigate an individual-based Lotka-Volterra model with density-dependent movement, in which the predator and prey populations live in a very large number of coupled patches. The rates at which individuals leave patches depend on the local densities of heterospecifics, giving rise to one reaction norm for each of the two species. Movement rates are assumed to be much faster than demographics rates. A spatial structure of predators and prey emerges which affects the global population dynamics. We derive a criterion which reveals how demographic stability depends on the relationships between the per capita covariance and densities of predators and prey. Specifically, we establish that a positive relationship with prey density and a negative relationship with predator density tend to be stabilizing. On a more mechanistic level we show how these relationships are linked to the movement reaction norms of predators and prey. Numerical results show that these findings hold both for local and global movements, i.e., both when migration is biased towards neighbouring patches and when all patches are reached with equal probability.",
    "title": "Population-level consequences of heterospecific density-dependent movements in predator-prey systems.",
    "abstract": "Ribosomal genes (RG), or genes for rRNA, are represented by multiple tandem repeats in eukaryotic genomes, and just a part of them is transcriptionally active. The quantity of active copies is a stable genome feature which determines the cell's capability for rapid synthesis of proteins, necessary to cope with stress conditions. Low number of active RG copies leads to reduced stress resistance and elevated risk of multifactorial disorders (MFD). Oxidative stress (OS) in the brain cells is believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of infantile autism (IA) and schizophrenia, i.e., MFDs with a manifested genetic predisposition. With autism, OS markers are found almost in every research, whilst with schizophrenia, the OS data are contradictory. Earlier, in a sample of patients with schizophrenia, we have found significantly higher quantity of active RG copies than at the average in healthy population. Here we have estimated the number of active RG copies in a sample of patients with IA (n = 51) and revealed significantly lower mean value than in healthy population. A novel mathematical model of the dynamic pattern of OS has been proposed. The model is realized as an ordinary differential equation system, supposing induction of antioxidant protection enzymes being mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS), with the subsequent decrease of ROS content in a cell. The rate of synthesis of antioxidant protection enzymes is limited by the ribosome synthesis rate which depends on the number of active RG copies. Analysis of the model showed that the system always approaches a single stable equilibrium point along a damped oscillation trajectory, which in some degree resembles the dynamics of 'predator-prey' interaction in Lotka-Volterra model. The stationary ROS level inversely depends on the number of active RG copies. Our study explains the inconsistency of clinical data of OS in schizophrenia and suggests a novel criterion for discriminative cytogenetic diagnostics of schizophrenia and IA, as well as allows to assume that antioxidant therapy should be effective only for children with low number of active RG copies.",
    "title": "[Oxidative stress, rRNA genes, and antioxidant enzymes in pathogenesis of schizophrenia and autism: modeling and clinical advices].",
    "abstract": "Winnerless competition is analyzed in coupled maps with discrete temporal evolution of the Lotka-Volterra type of arbitrary dimension. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the appearance of structurally stable heteroclinic cycles as a function of the model parameters are deduced. It is shown that under such conditions winnerless competition dynamics is fully exhibited. Based on these conditions different cases characterizing low, intermediate, and high dimensions are therefore computationally recreated. An analytical expression for the residence times valid in the N-dimensional case is deduced and successfully compared with the simulations.",
    "title": "Winnerless competition in coupled Lotka-Volterra maps.",
    "abstract": "In the paper we consider a system of delay differential equations (DDEs) of Lotka-Volterra type with diffusion reflecting mutations from normal to malignant cells. The model essentially follows the idea of Ahangar and Lin (2003) where mutations in three different environmental conditions, namely favorable, competitive and unfavorable, were considered. We focus on the unfavorable conditions that can result from a given treatment, e.g. chemotherapy. Included delay stands for the interactions between benign and other cells. We compare the dynamics of ODEs system, the system with delay and the system with delay and diffusion. We mainly focus on the dynamics when a positive steady state exists. The system which is globally stable in the case without the delay and diffusion is destabilized by increasing delay, and therefore the underlying kinetic dynamics becomes oscillatory due to a Hopf bifurcation for appropriate values of the delay. This suggests the occurrence of spatially non-homogeneous periodic solutions for the system with the delay and diffusion.",
    "title": "A simple model of carcinogenic mutations with time delay and diffusion.",
    "abstract": "In [18], Sighesada, Kawasaki and Teramoto presented a system of partial differential equations for modeling spatial segregation of interacting species. Apart from competitive Lotka-Volterra (reaction) and population pressure (cross-diffusion) terms, a convective term modeling the populations attraction to more favorable environmental regions was included. In this article, we study numerically a modification of their convective term to take account for the notion of spatial adaptation of populations. After describing the model, in which a time non-local drift term is considered, we propose a numerical discretization in terms of a mass-preserving time semi-implicit finite element method. Finally, we provied the results of some biologically inspired numerical experiments showing qualitative differences between the original model of [18] and the model proposed in this article.",
    "title": "Finite element approximation of a population spatial adaptation model.",
    "abstract": "Mutualistic symbioses between viruses and their hosts do not employ a straightforward rule by viral genome characteristics, transmission mechanisms or host genotypes. In this review we propose that reproduction rates and environmental carrying capacity of hosts may play a major role in maintaining the mutualism. Depending on how host life history shifts following establishment of the symbiosis, a symbiosis can be classified as quality-selected mutualism or quantity-selected mutualism. Quality-selected mutualism is described with modified Lotka-Volterra models. Both our models and previous empirical examples support the hypothesis that quality-selected mutualism can reach stable equilibrium under certain conditions. Quantity-selected mutualism is rare and is not supported by our model. With increasing attention to mutualistic viral ecology, we will have a better understanding of how viruses drive evolution.",
    "title": "A life history view of mutualistic viral symbioses: quantity or quality for cooperation?",
    "abstract": "Transitions to absorbing states are of fundamental importance in nonequilibrium physics as well as ecology. In ecology, absorbing states correspond to the extinction of species. We here study the spatial population dynamics of three cyclically interacting species. The interaction scheme comprises both direct competition between species as in the cyclic Lotka-Volterra model, and separated selection and reproduction processes as in the May-Leonard model. We show that the dynamic processes leading to the transient maintenance of biodiversity are closely linked to attractors of the nonlinear dynamics for the overall species' concentrations. The characteristics of these global attractors change qualitatively at certain threshold values of the mobility and depend on the relative strength of the different types of competition between species. They give information about the scaling of extinction times with the system size and thereby the stability of biodiversity. We define an effective free energy as the negative logarithm of the probability to find the system in a specific global state before reaching one of the absorbing states. The global attractors then correspond to minima of this effective energy landscape and determine the most probable values for the species' global concentrations. As in equilibrium thermodynamics, qualitative changes in the effective free energy landscape indicate and characterize the underlying nonequilibrium phase transitions. We provide the complete phase diagrams for the population dynamics and give a comprehensive analysis of the spatio-temporal dynamics and routes to extinction in the respective phases.",
    "title": "Global attractors and extinction dynamics of cyclically competing species.",
    "abstract": "It is generally difficult to define reasonable parameters and interpret their values in mathematical models of social phenomena. Rather than directly fitting abstract parameters against empirical data, we should define some concrete parameters to denote the sociocultural factors relevant for particular phenomena, and compute the values of these parameters based upon the corresponding empirical data. Taking the example of modeling studies of language competition, we propose a language diffusion principle and two language inheritance principles to compute two critical parameters, namely the impacts and inheritance rates of competing languages, in our language competition model derived from the Lotka-Volterra competition model in evolutionary biology. These principles assign explicit sociolinguistic meanings to those parameters and calculate their values from the relevant data of population censuses and language surveys. Using four examples of language competition, we illustrate that our language competition model with thus-estimated parameter values can reliably replicate and predict the dynamics of language competition, and it is especially useful in cases lacking direct competition data.",
    "title": "Principles of parametric estimation in modeling language competition.",
    "abstract": "There has been important progress in understanding ecological dynamics through the development of the theory of ecological stoichiometry. For example, modeling under this framework allows food quality to affect consumer dynamics. While the effects of nutrient deficiency on consumer growth are well understood, recent discoveries in ecological stoichiometry suggest that consumer dynamics are not only affected by insufficient food nutrient content (low phosphorus (P): carbon (C) ratio) but also by excess food nutrient content (high P:C). This phenomenon is known as the stoichiometric knife edge, in which animal growth is reduced not only by food with low P content but also by food with high P content, and needs to be incorporated into mathematical models. Here we present a Lotka-Volterra type model to investigate the growth response of Daphnia to algae of varying P:C ratios capturing the mechanism of the stoichiometric knife edge.",
    "title": "A stoichiometric producer-grazer model incorporating the effects of excess food-nutrient content on consumer dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Analyzing coexistence and survival scenarios of Lotka-Volterra (LV) networks in which the total biomass is conserved is of vital importance for the characterization of long-term dynamics of ecological communities. Here, we introduce a classification scheme for coexistence scenarios in these conservative LV models and quantify the extinction process by employing the Pfaffian of the network's interaction matrix. We illustrate our findings on global stability properties for general systems of four and five species and find a generalized scaling law for the extinction time.",
    "title": "Coexistence and survival in conservative Lotka-Volterra networks.",
    "abstract": "We consider a mathematical model for the spatio-temporal evolution of two biological species in a competitive situation. Besides diffusing, both species move toward higher concentrations of a chemical substance which is produced by themselves. The resulting system consists of two parabolic equations with Lotka-Volterra-type kinetic terms and chemotactic cross-diffusion, along with an elliptic equation describing the behavior of the chemical. We study the question in how far the phenomenon of competitive exclusion occurs in such a context. We identify parameter regimes for which indeed one of the species dies out asymptotically, whereas the other reaches its carrying capacity in the large time limit.",
    "title": "Competitive exclusion in a two-species chemotaxis model.",
    "abstract": "We present an agent-based model of head and neck cancer cell population dynamics that investigates the effect of cooperative interactions between individual cancer cells during the course of cytotoxic drug treatment. A model of cooperative behavior based on the Lotka-Volterra competition equations is combined with a model of drug resistance and response. Predictions regarding the individual and combination effects of cooperation and drug treatment qualitatively match experimental observations from the literature.",
    "title": "Mathematical model of the effect of intercellular cooperative interactions in cancer during drug therapy.",
    "abstract": "Bacteria and their viruses (bacteriophages) coexist in natural environments forming complex infection networks. Recent empirical findings suggest that phage-bacteria infection networks often possess a nested structure such that there is a hierarchical relationship among who can infect whom. Here we consider how nested infection networks may affect phage and bacteria dynamics using a multi-type Lotka-Volterra framework with cross-infection. Analysis of similar models has, in the past, assumed simpler interaction structures as a first step towards tractability. We solve the proposed model, finding trade-off conditions on the life-history traits of both bacteria and viruses that allow coexistence in communities with nested infection networks. First, we find that bacterial growth rate should decrease with increasing defense against infection. Second, we find that the efficiency of viral infection should decrease with host range. Next, we establish a relationship between relative densities and the curvature of life history trade-offs. We compare and contrast the current findings to the \"Kill-the-Winner\" model of multi-species phage-bacteria communities. Finally, we discuss a suite of testable hypotheses stemming from the current model concerning relationships between infection range, life history traits and coexistence in complex phage-bacteria communities.",
    "title": "Mechanisms of multi-strain coexistence in host-phage systems with nested infection networks.",
    "abstract": "The purpose of this article is to introduce a diffusion model for biological organisms that increase their motility when food or other resource is insufficient. It is shown in this paper that Fick's diffusion law does not explain such a starvation driven diffusion correctly. The diffusion model for nonuniform Brownian motion in Kim (Einstein's random walk and thermal diffusion, preprint http://amath.kaist.ac.kr/papers/Kim/31.pdf , 2013) is employed in this paper and a Fokker-Planck type diffusion law is obtained. Lotka-Volterra type competition systems with spatial heterogeneity are tested, where one species follows the starvation driven diffusion and the other follows the linear diffusion. In heterogeneous environments, the starvation driven diffusion turns out to be a better survival strategy than the linear one. Various issues such as the global asymptotic stability, convergence to an ideal free distribution, the extinction and coexistence of competing species are discussed.",
    "title": "Starvation driven diffusion as a survival strategy of biological organisms.",
    "abstract": "The model simulates the activity of three neural populations using a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system and, based on neuro-anatomical and neuro-physiological recent findings, assumes that a functional thalamo-cortical gate should be crossed by 'queuing' thalamic signals and that a sleep promoting substance acts as a modulator. The resultant activity accounts for the sleep stage transitions. In accordance with sleep cycles timing, the model proves to be able to reproduce the clustering and randomness of those peculiar transient synchronized EEG patterns (TSEP) described in normal human sleep and supposed to be related to the dynamic building up of NREM sleep until its stabilization against perturbations.",
    "title": "Double-layered models can explain macro and micro structure of human sleep.",
    "abstract": "Decabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-209), a new kind of persistent organic pollutants, was selected to investigate its influence on population growth and inter-specific competition between two species of marine bloom-forming microalgae, Heterosigma akashiwo and Karenia mikimotoi. (1)BDE-209 showed acute toxic effects on both microalgae and H. akashiwo was more sensitive from view of 96 h-EC50 and the ultrastructure variation. (2)The microalgal population growth patterns in mono-culture were density-dependent and the growth of both species in the normal co-culture was significantly depressed by competition (P<0.05) with different initial biomass ratios. BDE-209 exposure significantly changed the growth. (3) Lotka-Volterra competition model was used to simulate the interaction between the microalgae. BDE-209 exposure broke the competitive balance to make competition gradually shift in favor of H. akashiwo. Results suggested BDE-209 did have toxic effects on either microalgal growth or the inter-specific competition, which was quite different from previous reports. Further exploration of the mechanism is needed.",
    "title": "Effects of decabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-209) on inter-specific competition between two species of marine bloom-forming microalgae.",
    "abstract": "This study was undertaken to model and predict growth of Salmonella and the dominating natural microbiota, and their interaction in ground pork. Growth of Salmonella in sterile ground pork at constant temperatures between 4 \u00b0C and 38 \u00b0C was quantified and used for developing predictive models for lag time, max. specific growth rate and max. population density. Data from literature were used to develop growth models for the natural pork microbiota. Challenge tests at temperatures from 9.4 to 24.1 \u00b0C and with Salmonella inoculated in ground pork were used for evaluation of interaction models. The existing Jameson-effect and Lotka-Volterra species interaction models and a new expanded Jameson-effect model were evaluated. F-test indicated lack-of-fit for the classical Jameson-effect model at all of the tested temperatures and at 14.1-20.2 \u00b0C this was caused by continued growth of Salmonella after the natural microbiota had reached their max. population density. The new expanded Jameson-effect model and the Lotka-Volterra model performed better and appropriately described the continued but reduced growth of Salmonella after the natural microbiota had reached their max. population density. The expanded Jameson-effect model is a new and simple species interaction model, which performed as well as the more complex Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "title": "Effect of natural microbiota on growth of Salmonella spp. in fresh pork--a predictive microbiology approach.",
    "abstract": "Predator-prey dynamics is most simply and commonly described by Lotka-Volterra-type ordinary differential equations (ODEs) for continuous population density variables in the limit of large population sizes. One popular extension of these ODEs is the so-called Rosenzweig-MacArthur model in which various interaction rates between the populations have a nonlinear dependence on the prey concentration. Nonlinear 'functional responses' of this type were originally proposed by Holling on the basis of a general argument concerning the allocation of a predator's time between two activities: 'prey searching' and 'prey handling'. Although these functional responses are constructed in terms of the behaviour of an individual predator, they are routinely incorporated at the population level in models that include reproduction and death. In this paper we derive a novel three variable model for the simplest possible mathematical formulation of predator-prey dynamics that allows the interplay between these various processes to take place, on their different characteristic timescales. We study its properties in detail and show how it reduces to Holling's functional responses in special limits. As a result we are able to establish direct links between individual-level and population-level behaviour in the context of these well-known functional responses.",
    "title": "A derivation of Holling's type I, II and III functional responses in predator-prey systems.",
    "abstract": "For the representation of RNA interference (RNAi) dynamics, several mathematical models based on systems of ordinary differential equations (ODEs) have been proposed. These models consist of equations for each molecule that are involved in RNAi phenomena. Therefore, many real-value parameters must be optimized to identify the models. They also have many 'hidden variables', which cannot be observed directly through experimentation. Calculation of the values of the hidden variables is generally very difficult, if not impossible in some special cases. Identification of the ODE models is also quite difficult.\nWe show that the simplified logistic Lotka-Volterra model, a well-established ODE model for biological and biochemical phenomena, can represent RNAi dynamics as a predator-prey system. Although a hidden variable exists in the model, its values can be determined and made visible as dynamic profiles of RNA-decomposing effects of siRNAs. Correlation analysis shows that the model parameters correlate highly with the total effect of the siRNA.\nThe results suggest that analyses using our model are useful to estimate dynamic profiles of siRNA effects on apoptosis and to score siRNA by its effects on apoptosis, namely 'phenotypic scoring'.",
    "title": "Estimate hidden dynamic profiles of siRNA effect on apoptosis.",
    "abstract": "Complex biological systems manifest a large variety of emergent phenomena among which prominent roles belong to self-organization and swarm intelligence. Generally, each level in a biological hierarchy possesses its own systemic properties and requires its own way of observation, conceptualization, and modeling. In this work, an attempt is made to outline general guiding principles in exploration of a wide range of seemingly dissimilar phenomena observed in large communities of individuals devoid of any personal intelligence and interacting with each other through simple stimulus-response rules. Mathematically, these guiding principles are well captured by the Global Consensus Theorem (GCT) equally applicable to neural networks and to Lotka-Volterra population dynamics. Universality of the mechanistic principles outlined by GCT allows for a unified approach to such diverse systems as biological networks, communities of social insects, robotic communities, microbial communities, communities of somatic cells, social networks and many other systems. Another cluster of universal laws governing the self-organization in large communities of locally interacting individuals is built around the principle of self-organized criticality (SOC). The GCT and SOC, separately or in combination, provide a conceptual basis for understanding the phenomena of self-organization occurring in large communities without involvement of a supervisory authority, without system-wide informational infrastructure, and without mapping of general plan of action onto cognitive/behavioral faculties of its individual members. Cancer onset and proliferation serves as an important example of application of these conceptual approaches. In this paper, the point of view is put forward that apparently irreconcilable contradictions between two opposing theories of carcinogenesis, that is, the Somatic Mutation Theory and the Tissue Organization Field Theory, may be resolved using the systemic approaches provided by GST and SOC.",
    "title": "Global consensus theorem and self-organized criticality: unifying principles for understanding self-organization, swarm intelligence and mechanisms of carcinogenesis.",
    "abstract": "We study a model of competition for resource through a chemostat-type model where species consume the common resource that is constantly supplied. We assume that the species and resources are characterized by a continuous trait. As already proved, this model, although more complicated than the usual Lotka-Volterra direct competition model, describes competitive interactions leading to concentrated distributions of species in continuous trait space. Here we assume a very fast dynamics for the supply of the resource and a fast dynamics for death and uptake rates. In this regime we show that factors that are independent of the resource competition become as important as the competition efficiency and that the direct competition model is a good approximation of the chemostat. Assuming these two timescales allows us to establish a mathematically rigorous proof showing that our resource-competition model with continuous traits converges to a direct competition model. We also show that the two timescales assumption is required to mathematically justify the corresponding classic result on a model consisting of only finite number of species and resources (MacArthur in, Theor Popul Biol 1:1-11, 1970). This is performed through asymptotic analysis, introducing different scales for the resource renewal rate and the uptake rate. The mathematical difficulty relies in a possible initial layer for the resource dynamics. The chemostat model comes with a global convex Lyapunov functional. We show that the particular form of the competition kernel derived from the uptake kernel, satisfies a positivity property which is known to be necessary for the direct competition model to enjoy the related Lyapunov functional.",
    "title": "Direct competition results from strong competition for limited resource.",
    "abstract": "Dynamical behaviors of the competitive Lotka-Volterra system even for 3 species are not fully understood. In this paper, we study this problem from the perspective of the Lyapunov function. We construct explicitly the Lyapunov function using three examples of the competitive Lotka-Volterra system for the whole state space: (1) the general 2-species case, (2) a 3-species model, and (3) the model of May-Leonard. The basins of attraction for these examples are demonstrated, including cases with bistability and cyclical behavior. The first two examples are the generalized gradient system, where the energy dissipation may not follow the gradient of the Lyapunov function. In addition, under a new type of stochastic interpretation, the Lyapunov function also leads to the Boltzmann-Gibbs distribution on the final steady state when multiplicative noise is added.",
    "title": "Dynamical behaviors determined by the Lyapunov function in competitive Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "The assumption of a twofold cost of sex not only complicates the maintenance of sex but also sets conditions for sexual conflict: in organisms with the twofold cost, males often sexually harass females. Sexual harassment is detrimental to female fitness and thus might help maintain sexual populations if male harassment inflicts a harsher cost on parthenogens than on sexual females (asymmetric harassment cost). However, the generality of this concept is now considered doubtful because selective harassment of parthenogens results in loss of mating opportunities for males. Using three mathematical models, I show here that sexual harassment still can impose the asymmetric cost on parthenogens. First, I apply the Lotka-Volterra model to show the degree of asymmetric harassment cost that permits sex to be maintained stably in the population. Second, using adaptive dynamics, I examine whether sexually antagonistic coevolution for sexual harassment, which occurs only in sexual populations, can promote the asymmetric harassment cost. Finally, an individual-based model, which assumes a spatial structure unlike that in the other two, demonstrates that the asymmetric evolution of harassment cost prevents further invasions of parthenogens from different patches into sexual lineages; these mechanisms may account for allopatric distributions of sexual and parthenogenetic lineages as well as the maintenance of sex.",
    "title": "Sexually antagonistic coevolution for sexual harassment can act as a barrier to further invasions by parthenogenesis.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the competing effects and relative importance of intrinsic demographic and environmental variability on the evolutionary dynamics of a stochastic two-species Lotka-Volterra model by means of Monte Carlo simulations on a two-dimensional lattice. Individuals are assigned inheritable predation efficiencies; quenched randomness in the spatially varying reaction rates serves as environmental noise. We find that environmental variability enhances the population densities of both predators and prey while demographic variability leads to essentially neutral optimization.",
    "title": "Environmental versus demographic variability in two-species predator-prey models.",
    "abstract": "Understanding the mechanisms that maintain biodiversity is a fundamental problem in ecology. Competition is thought to reduce diversity, but hundreds of microbial aquatic primary producers species coexist and compete for a few essential resources (e.g., nutrients and light). Here, we show that resource competition is a plausible mechanism for explaining clumpy distribution on individual species volume (a proxy for the niche) of estuarine phytoplankton communities ranging from North America to South America and Europe, supporting the Emergent Neutrality hypothesis. Furthermore, such a clumpy distribution was also observed throughout the Holocene in diatoms from a sediment core. A Lotka-Volterra competition model predicted position in the niche axis and functional affiliation of dominant species within and among clumps. Results support the coexistence of functionally equivalent species in ecosystems and indicate that resource competition may be a key process to shape the size structure of estuarine phytoplankton, which in turn drives ecosystem functioning.",
    "title": "Competition drives clumpy species coexistence in estuarine phytoplankton.",
    "abstract": "The effects of a behavioral refuge caused either by the predator optimal foraging or prey adaptive antipredator behavior on the Gause predator-prey model are studied. It is shown that both of these mechanisms promote predator-prey coexistence either at an equilibrium, or along a limit cycle. Adaptive prey refuge use leads to hysteresis in prey antipredator behavior which allows predator-prey coexistence along a limit cycle. Similarly, optimal predator foraging leads to sigmoidal functional responses with a potential to stabilize predator-prey population dynamics at an equilibrium, or along a limit cycle.",
    "title": "Behavioral refuges and predator-prey coexistence.",
    "abstract": "This paper proposes adapting a particle filtering algorithm to model online Spanish real estate and job search market segments based on the Lotka-Volterra competition equations. For this purpose the authors use data on Internet information searches from Google Trends to proxy for market share. Market share evolution estimations are coherent with those observed in Google Trends. The results show evidence of low website incompatibility in the markets analyzed. Competitive oligopolies are most common in such low-competition markets, instead of the monopolies predicted by theoretical ecology models under strong competition conditions.",
    "title": "Estimating population ecology models for the WWW market: evidence of competitive oligopolies.",
    "abstract": "Computational systems biology is concerned with the development of detailed mechanistic models of biological processes. Such models are often stochastic and analytically intractable, containing uncertain parameters that must be estimated from time course data. In this article, we consider the task of inferring the parameters of a stochastic kinetic model defined as a Markov (jump) process. Inference for the parameters of complex nonlinear multivariate stochastic process models is a challenging problem, but we find here that algorithms based on particle Markov chain Monte Carlo turn out to be a very effective computationally intensive approach to the problem. Approximations to the inferential model based on stochastic differential equations (SDEs) are considered, as well as improvements to the inference scheme that exploit the SDE structure. We apply the methodology to a Lotka-Volterra system and a prokaryotic auto-regulatory network.",
    "title": "Bayesian parameter inference for stochastic biochemical network models using particle Markov chain Monte Carlo.",
    "abstract": "In most tissue engineering applications, understanding the factors affecting the growth dynamics of coculture systems is crucial for directing the population toward a desirable regenerative process. Yet, no comprehensive analysis method exists to quantify coculture population dynamics, let alone, a unifying model addressing the \"environmental\" factors influencing cell growth, all together. Here we suggest a modification of the Lotka-Volterra model to analyze the population dynamics of cocultured cells and predict their growth profiles for tissue engineering applications. This model, commonly used to describe the population dynamics of a prey and predator sharing a closed ecological niche, was found to fit our empirical data on cocultures of endothelial cells (ECs) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) that have been widely investigated for their regenerative potential. Applying this model to cocultures of this sort allows us to quantify the effect that culturing conditions have on the way cell growth is affected by the same cells or by the other cells in the coculture. We found that in most cases, EC growth was inhibited by the same cells but promoted by MSCs. The principles resulting from this analysis can be used in various applications to guide the population toward a desired direction while shedding new light on the fundamental interactions between ECs and MSCs. Similar results were also demonstrated on complex substrates made from decellularized porcine cardiac extracellular matrix, where growth occurred only after coculturing ECs and MSCs together. Finally, this unique implementation of the Lotka-Volterra model may also be regarded as a roadmap for using such models with other potentially regenerative cocultures in various applications.",
    "title": "A mathematical model predicting the coculture dynamics of endothelial and mesenchymal stem cells for tissue regeneration.",
    "abstract": "We consider the competitive population dynamics of two species described by the Lotka-Volterra model in the presence of spatial diffusion. The model is described by the diffusion coefficient (d(\u03b1)) and proliferation rate (r(\u03b1)) of the species \u03b1 (\u03b1 = 1,2 is the species label). Propagating wave front solutions in one dimension are investigated analytically and by numerical solutions. It is found that the wave profiles and wave speeds are determined by the speed parameters, v(\u03b1) \u2261 2 sqrt [d(\u03b1)r(\u03b1)], of the two species, and the phase diagrams for various inter- and intracompetitive scenarios are determined. The steady wave front speeds are obtained analytically via nonlinear dynamics analysis and verified by numerical solutions. The effect of the intermediate stationary state is investigated and propagating wave profiles beyond the simple Fisher wave fronts are revealed. The wave front speed of a species can display abrupt increase as its speed parameter is increased. In particular for the case in which both species are aggressive, our results show that the speed parameter is the deciding factor that determines the ultimate surviving species, in contrast to the case without diffusion in which the final surviving species is decided by its initial population advantage. Possible relations to the biological relevance of modeling cancer development and wound healing are also discussed.",
    "title": "Population dynamics and wave propagation in a Lotka-Volterra system with spatial diffusion.",
    "abstract": "Many species live in advective environments, such as rivers or streams. The community composition in such environments is shaped by the interplay between biotic interactions and hydrologic constraints. Lutscher et al.\u00a0(Theor.\u00a0Popul.\u00a0Biol. 71:267-277, 2007) demonstrated by simulation that advective flow can shift competitive outcome from one species dominating to coexistence or even to the other species dominating. Here, we present a detailed analysis of the Lotka-Volterra advection-diffusion model underlying their simulations. We use variational techniques as well as a spatially implicit approximation to determine all possible advection-induced shifts in competitive outcome. We show that changes in advection follow relatively few and predictable paths. We illustrate our results in various bifurcation diagrams.",
    "title": "How flow speed alters competitive outcome in advective environments.",
    "abstract": "This study was conducted to investigate the growth of non-O157 Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) in spinach leaves and to develop kinetic models to describe the bacterial growth. Six serogroups of non-O157 STEC, including O26, O45, O103, O111, O121, and O145, were used in the growth studies conducted isothermally at 4, 8, 15, 20, 25, 30, and 35 \u00b0C. Both STEC and background microflora were enumerated to develop kinetic models. Growth of STEC in spinach leaves was observed at elevated temperatures (15-35 \u00b0C), but not at 4 and 8 \u00b0C. This study considered the dynamic interactions between the STEC cells and the background microflora. A modified Lotka-Volterra and logistic equation was used to simulate the bacterial growth. In combination with an unconstrained optimization procedure, the differential growth equations were solved numerically to evaluate the dynamic interactions between the STEC cells and the background microflora, and to determine the kinetic parameters by fitting each growth curve to the growth equations. A close agreement between the experimental growth curves and the numerical analysis results was obtained. The analytical results showed that the growth of STEC in spinach leaves was unhindered when the population was low, but the growth was suppressed by the background microflora as the STEC population approached the maximum population density. The effect of temperature on the growth of both STEC and background microflora was also evaluated. Secondary models, evaluating the effect of temperature on growth rates, were also developed. The estimated apparent minimum growth temperature for STEC was 11 \u00b0C in commercial spinach leaves. The methodology and results of this study can be used to examine the dynamic interactions and growth between different bacteria in foods, and to conduct risk assessments of STEC in spinach leaves.",
    "title": "Mathematical modeling and numerical analysis of the growth of non-O157 Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli in spinach leaves.",
    "abstract": "We propose an optimal control framework to describe intra-seasonal predator-prey interactions, which are characterized by a continuous-time dynamical model comprising predator and prey density, as well as the energy budget of the prey over the length of a season. The model includes a time-dependent decision variable for the prey, representing the portion of the prey population in time that is active, as opposed to diapausing (a state of physiological rest). The predator follows autonomous dynamics and accordingly it remains active during the season. The proposed model is a generalization of the classical Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model towards non-autonomous dynamics that furthermore includes the effect of an energy variable. The model has been inspired by a specific biological system of predatory mites (Acari: Phytoseiidae) and prey mites (so-called fruit-tree red spider mites) (Acari: Tetranychidae) that feed on leaves of apple trees--its parameters have been instantiated based on laboratory and field studies. The goal of the work is to understand the decisions of the prey mites to enter diapause (a state of physiological rest) given the dynamics of the predatory mites: this is achieved by solving an optimization problem hinging on the maximization of the prey population contribution to the next season. The main features of the optimal strategy for the prey are shown to be that (1) once in diapause, the prey does not become active again within the same season and hence diapause is an irreversible process; (2) for the vast majority of parameter space, the portion of prey individuals entering diapause within the season does not decrease in time; (3) with an increased number of predators, the optimal population strategy for the prey is to start diapause earlier and to enter diapause more gradually. This optimal population strategy will be studied for its ESS properties in a sequel to the work presented in this article.",
    "title": "Irreversible prey diapause as an optimal strategy of a physiologically extended Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "In order to control plant diseases and eventually maintain the number of infected plants below an economic threshold, a specific management strategy called the threshold policy is proposed, resulting in Filippov systems. These are a class of piecewise smooth systems of differential equations with a discontinuous right-hand side. The aim of this work is to investigate the global dynamic behavior including sliding dynamics of one Filippov plant disease model with cultural control strategy. We examine a Lotka-Volterra Filippov plant disease model with proportional planting rate, which is globally studied in terms of five types of equilibria. For one type of equilibrium, the global structure is discussed by the iterative equations for initial numbers of plants. For the other four types of equilibria, the bounded global attractor of each type is obtained by constructing appropriate Lyapunov functions. The ideas of constructing Lyapunov functions for Filippov systems, the methods of analyzing such systems and the main results presented here provide scientific support for completing control regimens on plant diseases in integrated disease management.",
    "title": "Non-smooth plant disease models with economic thresholds.",
    "abstract": "Populations of competing biological species exhibit a fascinating interplay between the nonlinear dynamics of evolutionary selection forces and random fluctuations arising from the stochastic nature of the interactions. The processes leading to extinction of species, whose understanding is a key component in the study of evolution and biodiversity, are influenced by both of these factors. Here, we investigate a class of stochastic population dynamics models based on generalized Lotka-Volterra systems. In the case of neutral stability of the underlying deterministic model, the impact of intrinsic noise on the survival of species is dramatic: It destroys coexistence of interacting species on a time scale proportional to the population size. We introduce a new method based on stochastic averaging which allows one to understand this extinction process quantitatively by reduction to a lower-dimensional effective dynamics. This is performed analytically for two highly symmetrical models and can be generalized numerically to more complex situations. The extinction probability distributions and other quantities of interest we obtain show excellent agreement with simulations.",
    "title": "Extinction in neutrally stable stochastic Lotka-Volterra models.",
    "abstract": "A mutualism-parasitism system of two species is considered, where mutualism is the dominant interaction when the predators (parasites) are at low density while parasitism is dominant when the predators are at high density. Our aim is to show that mutualism at low density promotes coexistence of the species and leads to high production of the prey (host). The mutualism-parasitism system presented here is a combination of the Lotka-Volterra cooperative model and Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model. By comparing dynamics of this system with those of the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model, we present the mechanisms by which the mutualism improves the coexistence of the species and production of the prey. Then the parameter space is divided into six regions, which correspond to the four outcomes of mutualism, commensalism, predation/parasitism and neutralism, respectively. When the parameters are varied continuously among the six regions, it is shown that the interaction outcomes of the system transition smoothly among the four outcomes. By comparing the dynamics of the specific system with those of the Lotka-Volterra cooperative model, we show that the parasitism at high density promotes stability of the system. A novel aspect of this paper is the simplicity of the model, which allows rigorous and thorough analysis and transparency of the results.",
    "title": "A mutualism-parasitism system modeling host and parasite with mutualism at low density.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we analyse a discrete stage-structured model which is a generalization of the two-species competition model studied in [2]. Motivated by plant populations, each species is assumed to reproduce both sexually and clonally. We show that this model has a dynamical behaviour that is similar to that of the classical continuous two-dimensional Lotka-Volterra model under weak nonlinearities of the Beverton-Holt type. By allowing the species to have different competition efficiencies, we show that it is possible to obtain different dynamics including coexistence, bistability and competitive exclusion, in contrast with the model studied in [2], which exhibits only competitive exclusion behaviour.",
    "title": "A discrete stage-structured two-species competition model with sexual and clonal reproduction.",
    "abstract": "Adaptive dynamics (AD) so far has been put on a rigorous footing only for clonal inheritance. We extend this to sexually reproducing diploids, although admittedly still under the restriction of an unstructured population with Lotka-Volterra-like dynamics and single locus genetics (as in Kimura's in Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 54: 731-736, 1965 infinite allele model). We prove under the usual smoothness assumptions, starting from a stochastic birth and death process model, that, when advantageous mutations are rare and mutational steps are not too large, the population behaves on the mutational time scale (the 'long' time scale of the literature on the genetical foundations of ESS theory) as a jump process moving between homozygous states (the trait substitution sequence of the adaptive dynamics literature). Essential technical ingredients are a rigorous estimate for the probability of invasion in a dynamic diploid population, a rigorous, geometric singular perturbation theory based, invasion implies substitution theorem, and the use of the Skorohod M 1 topology to arrive at a functional convergence result. In the small mutational steps limit this process in turn gives rise to a differential equation in allele or in phenotype space of a type referred to in the adaptive dynamics literature as 'canonical equation'.",
    "title": "A rigorous model study of the adaptive dynamics of Mendelian diploids.",
    "abstract": "One of the most crucial tasks faced by biologists today is revealing the mechanisms which account for biodiversity, yet we are still far from a full understanding of these mechanisms, and in particular the role of spatially heterogeneous population distributions. Recently, the spatially heterogeneous coexistence seen in cyclic competition models--in which species compete as in the game rock-paper-scissors--has brought them to the fore as a paradigm for biodiversity. Research into cyclic competition has so far been focused almost exclusively on stochastic lattice models with discrete space, which ignore several key dynamical aspects. In particular, such models usually assume that species disperse at the same speed. This paper aims to extend our understanding of cyclic competition by applying a reaction-diffusion Lotka-Volterra scheme to the problem, which allows us to vary the mobility of each species, and lets us take into account cyclic competition with more complex underlying mechanisms. In this paper we reveal an entirely new kind of cyclic competition-'conditional' cyclic competition, with a different underlying mechanism to 'classic' cyclic competition-and we show that biodiversity in communities with cyclic competition in fact depends heavily on the ratios between the species mobilities. Furthermore, we show that this dependence can be completely different for conditional and classic cyclic competition. We also present a wide range of spatiotemporal patterns which are formed in the system, including spiral and target waves, spiralling patches, and irregular chaotic patches. We show that the previously unknown case of conditional cyclic competition is host to a scenario of patchy co-invasion, where the spread of the population front takes place via the formation, splitting and propagation of patches of high species density. This is also an example of invasional meltdown because one competitor facilitates the invasion of the other, but unlike well-known cases of invasional meltdown the co-invaders in this system are not mutualists but antagonistic competitors, and the overall result mitigates, rather than amplifies, the damage done to the native ecosystem.",
    "title": "Revising the role of species mobility in maintaining biodiversity in communities with cyclic competition.",
    "abstract": "Kinetic Monte Carlo simulations are used to study the stochastic two-species Lotka-Volterra model on a square lattice. For certain values of the model parameters, the system constitutes an excitable medium: travelling pulses and rotating spiral waves can be excited. Stable solitary pulses travel with constant (modulo stochastic fluctuations) shape and speed along a periodic lattice. The spiral waves observed persist sometimes for hundreds of rotations, but they are ultimately unstable and break-up (because of fluctuations and interactions between neighboring fronts) giving rise to complex dynamic behavior in which numerous small spiral waves rotate and interact with each other. It is interesting that travelling pulses and spiral waves can be exhibited by the model even for completely immobile species, due to the non-local reaction kinetics.",
    "title": "Kinetic Monte Carlo simulations of travelling pulses and spiral waves in the lattice Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Host individuals are often infected with more than one parasite species (parasites defined broadly, to include viruses and bacteria). Yet, research in infection biology is dominated by studies on single-parasite infections. A focus on single-parasite infections is justified if the interactions among parasites are additive, however increasing evidence points to non-additive interactions being the norm. Here we review this evidence and theoretically explore the implications of non-additive interactions between co-infecting parasites. We use classic Lotka-Volterra two-species competition equations to investigate the within-host dynamical consequences of various mixes of competition and facilitation between a pair of co-infecting species. We then consider the implications of these dynamics for the virulence (damage to host) of co-infections and consequent evolution of parasite strategies of exploitation. We find that whereas one-way facilitation poses some increased virulence risk, reciprocal facilitation presents a qualitatively distinct destabilization of within-host dynamics and the greatest risk of severe disease.",
    "title": "Within-host dynamics of multi-species infections: facilitation, competition and virulence.",
    "abstract": "An n species stochastic impulsive migration Lotka-Volterra model with Markovian switching in N different patches is presented and studied in this paper. By constructing appropriate Lyapunov functions, some sufficient conditions on the global positivity, the ultimate boundedness in mean and the extinction in mean are established. Real world examples are provided to illustrate the validity of our results. A discussion is given in the end.",
    "title": "n Species impulsive migration model with Markovian switching.",
    "abstract": "The dynamic economic behavior in most integrated assessment models linking economic growth to climate change involves a differential equation solved by Jacob Bernoulli in 1695. Using the dynamic integrated climate economy (DICE) model and freezing exogenous variables at initial values, this dynamic is shown to produce implausible projections on a 60-year time frame. If world capital started at US$1, after 60 years the world economy would be indistinguishable from one starting with 10 times the current capitalization. Such behavior points to uncertainty at the level of the fundamental dynamics, and suggests that discussions of discounting, utility, damage functions, and ethics should be conducted within a more general modeling vocabulary. Lotka Volterra dynamics is proposed as an alternative with greater prime facie plausibility. With near universality, economists assume that economic growth will go on forever. Lotka Volterra dynamics alert us to the possibility of collapse.",
    "title": "Model uncertainty in economic impacts of climate change: Bernoulli versus Lotka Volterra dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Uncovering how natural selection and genetic drift shape the evolutionary dynamics of virus populations within their hosts can pave the way to a better understanding of virus emergence. Mathematical models already play a leading role in these studies and are intended to predict future emergences. Here, using high-throughput sequencing, we analyzed the within-host population dynamics of four Potato virus Y (PVY) variants differing at most by two substitutions involved in pathogenicity properties. Model selection procedures were used to compare experimental results to six hypotheses regarding competitiveness and intensity of genetic drift experienced by viruses during host plant colonization. Results indicated that the frequencies of variants were well described using Lotka-Volterra models where the competition coefficients \u03b2(ij) exerted by variant j on variant i are equal to their fitness ratio, r(j)/r(i). Statistical inference allowed the estimation of the effect of each mutation on fitness, revealing slight (s\u200a=\u200a-0.45%) and high (s\u200a=\u200a-13.2%) fitness costs and a negative epistasis between them. Results also indicated that only 1 to 4 infectious units initiated the population of one apical leaf. The between-host variances of the variant frequencies were described using Dirichlet-multinomial distributions whose scale parameters, closely related to the fixation index F(ST), were shown to vary with time. The genetic differentiation of virus populations among plants increased from 0 to 10 days post-inoculation and then decreased until 35 days. Overall, this study showed that mathematical models can accurately describe both selection and genetic drift processes shaping the evolutionary dynamics of viruses within their hosts.",
    "title": "Modelling the evolutionary dynamics of viruses within their hosts: a case study using high-throughput sequencing.",
    "abstract": "Robust homeostatic mechanisms are essential for the protection and adaptation of organisms in a changing and challenging environment. Integral feedback is a control-engineering concept that leads to robust, i.e., perturbation-independent, adaptation and homeostatic behavior in the controlled variable. Addressing two-component negative feedback loops of a controlled variable A and a controller molecule E, we have shown that integral control is closely related to the presence of zero-order fluxes in the removal of the manipulated variable E. Here we show that autocatalysis is an alternative mechanism to obtain integral control. Although the conservative and marginal stability of the Lotka-Volterra oscillator (LVO) with autocatalysis in both A and E is often considered as a major inadequacy, homeostasis in the average concentrations of both A and E (<A> and <E>) is observed. Thus, autocatalysis does not only represent a mere driving force, but may also have regulatory roles.",
    "title": "Robust adaptation and homeostasis by autocatalysis.",
    "abstract": "The dominant differential equation paradigm for modeling the population dynamics of species interacting in the framework of a food web retains at its core the basic prey-predator and competition models formulation by Alfred J. Lotka (1880-1945) and Vito Volterra (1860-1940) nearly nine decades ago. This paradigm lacks a trophic-level-independent formulation of population growth leading to ambiguities in how to treat populations that are simultaneously both prey and predator. Also, this paradigm does not fundamentally include inertial (i.e. change resisting) processes needed to account for the response of populations to fluctuating resource environments. Here I present an approach that corrects both these deficits and provides a unified framework for accounting for biomass transformation in food webs that include both live and dead components of all species in the system. This biomass transformation formulation (BTW) allows for a unified treatment of webs that include consumers of both live and dead material-both carnivores and carcasivores, herbivores and detritivores-and incorporates scavengers, parasites, and other neglected food web consumption categories in a coherent manner. I trace how BTW is an outgrowth of the metaphysiological growth modeling paradigm and I provide a general compact formulation of BTW in terms of a three-variable differential equation formulation for each species in the food web: viz. live biomass, dead biomass, and a food-intake-related measure called deficit-stress. I then illustrate the application of this new paradigm to provide insights into two-species competition in variable environments and discuss application of BTW to food webs that incorporate parasites and pathogens.",
    "title": "A Biomass Flow Approach to Population Models and Food Webs.",
    "abstract": "A hybrid model, on the competition tumor cells immune system, is studied under suitable hypotheses. The explicit form for the equations is obtained in the case where the density function of transition is expressed as the product of separable functions. A concrete application is given starting from a modified Lotka-Volterra system of equations.",
    "title": "Separable transition density in the hybrid model for tumor-immune system competition.",
    "abstract": "Mutualism is a biological association for a mutual benefit between two different species. In this paper, firstly, we examine the history and signification of mutualism in relation to symbiosis. Then, we consider the link between concepts and models of mutualism. Models of mutualism depend on different concepts we use: If mutualism is situated at populations' level, it will be expressed by Lotka-Volterra models, concerning exclusively populations' size. If mutualism is considered as a resources' exchange or a biological market increasing the fitness of these organisms, it will be described at an individual level by a cost-benefit model. Our analysis will be limited to the history and epistemology of Lotka-Volterra models and we hypothesize that these models are adapted at first to translate dynamic evolutions of mutualism. They render stability or variations of size and assume that there are clear distinctions and a state of equilibrium between populations of different species. Italian mathematician Vito Volterra demonstrated that biological associations consist in a constant relation between some species. In 1931 and 1935, Volterra described the general form of antagonistic or mutualistic biological associations by the same differential equations. We recognize that these equations have been more used to model competition or prey-predator interactions, but a simple sign change allows describing mutualism. The epistemological problem is the following: Volterra's equations help us to conceptualize a global phenomenon. However, mutualistic interactions may have stronger effects away from equilibrium and these effects may be better understood at individual level. We conclude that, between 1985 and 2000, some researchers carried on working and converting Lotka-Volterra models but this description appeared as insufficient. So, other researchers adopted an economical viewpoint, considering mutualism as a biological market.",
    "title": "[Biological mutualism, concepts and models].",
    "abstract": "A number of recent studies suggest that many biological species follow a L\u00e9vy random walk in their search for food. Such a strategy has been shown to be more efficient than classical Brownian motion when resources are scarce. However, current diffusion-reaction models used to describe many ecological systems do not account for the superdiffusive spread of populations due to L\u00e9vy flights. We have developed a model to simulate the spatial spread of two species competing for the same resources and driven by L\u00e9vy flights. The model is based on the Lotka-Volterra equations and has been obtained by replacing the second-order diffusion operator by a fractional-order one. Consistent with previous known results, theoretical developments and numerical simulations show that fractional-order diffusion leads to an exponential acceleration of the population fronts and a power-law decay of the fronts' leading tail. Depending on the skewness of the fractional derivative, we derive catch-up conditions for different types of fronts. Our results indicate that second-order diffusion-reaction models are not well-suited to simulate the spatial spread of biological species that follow a L\u00e9vy random walk as they are inclined to underestimate the speed at which these species propagate.",
    "title": "Front dynamics in a two-species competition model driven by L\u00e9vy flights.",
    "abstract": "Dynamic neuronal networks are a key paradigm of increasing importance in brain research, concerned with the functional analysis of biological neuronal networks and, at the same time, with the synthesis of artificial brain-like systems. In this context, neuronal network models serve as mathematical tools to understand the function of brains, but they might as well develop into future tools for enhancing certain functions of our nervous system. Here, we present and discuss our recent achievements in developing multiplicative point processes into a viable mathematical framework for spiking network modeling. The perspective is that the dynamic behavior of these neuronal networks is faithfully reflected by a set of non-linear rate equations, describing all interactions on the population level. These equations are similar in structure to Lotka-Volterra equations, well known by their use in modeling predator-prey relations in population biology, but abundant applications to economic theory have also been described. We present a number of biologically relevant examples for spiking network function, which can be studied with the help of the aforementioned correspondence between spike trains and specific systems of non-linear coupled ordinary differential equations. We claim that, enabled by the use of multiplicative point processes, we can make essential contributions to a more thorough understanding of the dynamical properties of interacting neuronal populations.",
    "title": "Emergent properties of interacting populations of spiking neurons.",
    "abstract": "For a population with any given number of types, we construct a new multivariate Moran process with frequency-dependent selection and establish, analytically, a correspondence to equilibrium Lotka-Volterra phenomenology. This correspondence, on the one hand, allows us to infer the phenomenology of our Moran process based on much simpler Lokta-Volterra phenomenology and, on the other, allows us to study Lotka-Volterra dynamics within the finite populations of a Moran process. Applications to community ecology, population genetics, and evolutionary game theory are discussed.",
    "title": "Multivariate Moran process with Lotka-Volterra phenomenology.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we discuss a class of bistable reaction-diffusion systems used to model the competitive interaction of two species. The interactions are assumed to be of classic \"Lotka-Volterra\" type and we will consider a particular problem with relevance to applications in population dynamics: essentially, we study under what conditions the interplay of relative motility (diffusion) and competitive strength can cause waves of invasion to be halted and reversed. By establishing rigorous results concerning related degenerate and near-degenerate systems, we build a picture of the dependence of the wave speed on system parameters. Our results lead us to conjecture that this class of competition model has three \"zones of response\". In the central zone, varying the motility can slow, halt and reverse invasion. However, in the two outer zones, the direction of invasion is independent of the relative motility and is entirely determined by the relative competitive strengths. Furthermore, we conjecture that for a large class of competition models of the type studied here, the wave speed is an increasing function of the relative motility.",
    "title": "Reversing invasion in bistable systems.",
    "abstract": "We consider a system of delay differential equations modeling the predator-prey ecoepidemic dynamics with a transmissible disease in the predator population. The time lag in the delay terms represents the predator gestation period. We analyze essential mathematical features of the proposed model such as local and global stability and in addition study the bifurcations arising in some selected situations. Threshold values for a few parameters determining the feasibility and stability conditions of some equilibria are discovered and similarly a threshold is identified for the disease to die out. The parameter thresholds under which the system admits a Hopf bifurcation are investigated both in the presence of zero and non-zero time lag. Numerical simulations support our theoretical analysis.",
    "title": "Effect of delay in a Lotka-Volterra type predator-prey model with a transmissible disease in the predator species.",
    "abstract": "It is shown that Lotka-Volterra interaction terms are not appropriate to describe vertical cultural transmission. Appropriate interaction terms are derived and used to compute the effect of vertical cultural transmission on demic front propagation. They are also applied to a specific example, the Neolithic transition in Europe. In this example, it is found that the effect of vertical cultural transmission can be important (about 30%). On the other hand, simple models based on differential equations can lead to large errors (above 50%). Further physical, biophysical, and cross-disciplinary applications are outlined.",
    "title": "Vertical cultural transmission effects on demic front propagation: theory and application to the Neolithic transition in Europe.",
    "abstract": "To understand the evolution of diverse species, theoretical studies using a Lotka-Volterra type direct competition model had shown that concentrated distributions of species in continuous trait space often occurs. However, a more mechanistic approach is preferred because the competitive interaction of species usually occurs not directly but through competition for resource. We consider a chemostat-type model where species consume resource that are constantly supplied. Continuous traits in both consumer species and resource are incorporated. Consumers utilize resource whose trait values are similar with their own. We show that, even when resource-supply has a continuous distribution in trait space, a positive continuous distribution of consumer trait is impossible. Self-organized generation of distinct species occurs. We also prove global convergence to the evolutionarily stable distribution.",
    "title": "Evolution of species trait through resource competition.",
    "abstract": "A species is semelparous if every individual reproduces only once in its life and dies immediately after the reproduction. While the reproduction opportunity is unique per year and the individual's period from birth to reproduction is just n years, the individuals that reproduce in the ith year (modulo n) are called the ith year class, i =\u00a01, 2, . . . , n. The dynamics of the n year-class system can be described by a differential equation system of Lotka-Volterra type. For the case n =\u00a04, there is a heteroclinic cycle on the boundary as shown in previous works. In this paper, we focus on the case n =\u00a04 and show the existence, growth and disappearance of periodic orbits near the heteroclinic cycle, which is a part of the conjecture by Diekmann and van Gils (SIAM J Appl Dyn Syst 8:1160-1189, 2009). By analyzing the Poincar\u00e9 map near the heteroclinic cycle and introducing a metric to measure the size of the periodic orbit, we show that (i) when the average competitive degree among subpopulations (year classes) in the system is weak, there exists an asymptotically stable periodic orbit near the heteroclinic cycle which is repelling; (ii) the periodic orbit grows in size when some competitive degree increases, and converges to the heteroclinic cycle when the average competitive degree tends to be strong; (iii) when the average competitive degree is strong, there is no periodic orbit near the heteroclinic cycle which becomes asymptotically stable. Our results provide explanations why periodic solutions expand and disappear and why all but one subpopulation go extinct.",
    "title": "Periodic orbits near heteroclinic cycles in a cyclic replicator system.",
    "abstract": "1. There is a pressing need for population models that can reliably predict responses to changing environmental conditions and diagnose the causes of variation in abundance in space as well as through time. In this 'how to' article, it is outlined how standard population models can be modified to accommodate environmental variation in a heuristically conducive way. This approach is based on metaphysiological modelling concepts linking populations within food web contexts and underlying behaviour governing resource selection. Using population biomass as the currency, population changes can be considered at fine temporal scales taking into account seasonal variation. Density feedbacks are generated through the seasonal depression of resources even in the absence of interference competition. 2. Examples described include (i) metaphysiological modifications of Lotka-Volterra equations for coupled consumer-resource dynamics, accommodating seasonal variation in resource quality as well as availability, resource-dependent mortality and additive predation, (ii) spatial variation in habitat suitability evident from the population abundance attained, taking into account resource heterogeneity and consumer choice using empirical data, (iii) accommodating population structure through the variable sensitivity of life-history stages to resource deficiencies, affecting susceptibility to oscillatory dynamics and (iv) expansion of density-dependent equations to accommodate various biomass losses reducing population growth rate below its potential, including reductions in reproductive outputs. Supporting computational code and parameter values are provided. 3. The essential features of metaphysiological population models include (i) the biomass currency enabling within-year dynamics to be represented appropriately, (ii) distinguishing various processes reducing population growth below its potential, (iii) structural consistency in the representation of interacting populations and (iv) capacity to accommodate environmental variation in space as well as through time. Biomass dynamics provide a common currency linking behavioural, population and food web ecology. 4. Metaphysiological biomass loss accounting provides a conceptual framework more conducive for projecting and interpreting the population consequences of climatic shifts and human transformations of habitats than standard modelling approaches.",
    "title": "Accommodating environmental variation in population models: metaphysiological biomass loss accounting.",
    "abstract": "Models of plant virus epidemics have received less attention than those caused by fungal pathogens. Intuitively, the fact that virus diseases are systemic means that the individual diseased plant can be considered as the population unit which simplifies modelling. However, the fact that a vector is required in the vast majority of cases for virus transmission, means that explicit consideration must be taken of the vector, or, the involvement of the vector in the transmission process must be considered implicitly. In the latter case it is also important that within-plant processes, such as virus multiplication and systemic movement, are taken into account. In this paper we propose an approach based on the linking of transmission at the population level with virus multiplication within plants. The resulting models are parameter-sparse and hence simplistic. However, the range of model outcomes is representative of field observations relating to the apparent limitation of epidemic development in populations of healthy susceptible plants. We propose that epidemic development can be constrained by virus limitation in the early stages of an epidemic when the availability of healthy susceptible hosts is not limiting. There is an inverse relationship between levels of transmission in the population and the mean virus titre/infected plant. In the case of competition between viruses, both virus and host limitation are likely to be important in determining whether one virus can displace another or whether both viruses can co-exist in a plant population. Lotka-Volterra type equations are derived to describe density-dependent competition between two viruses multiplying within plants, embedded within a population level epidemiological model. Explicit expressions determining displacement or co-existence of the viruses are obtained. Unlike the classical Lotka-Volterra competition equations, the co-existence requirement for the competition coefficients to be both less than 1 can be relaxed.",
    "title": "Modelling virus- and host-limitation in vectored plant disease epidemics.",
    "abstract": "The coupling of identical reactors containing chemical oscillators is discussed. The coupling is executed by means of transferring chemical species from one cell (reactor) to the other in a diffusion like manner i.e. in proportion to the concentration difference between the cells. The coupling rate constant, however, is the same for all species. The individual, uncoupled, cells may be oscillating or in a stable steady state (the same for all reactors). In both cases, depending on the initial conditions, the symmetry breaks, and the cells may end up-contrary to intuition-in a stable steady state in which the final concentrations are not equal in the various reactors. The Brusselator and Oregonator mechanisms are examined and they behave in the manner described. On the other hand, the Lotka-Volterra mechanism, being conservative, keeps, when coupled, only the homogeneous solutions.",
    "title": "Oscillations death revisited; coupling of identical chemical oscillators.",
    "abstract": "We study the existence, uniqueness, and asymptotic stability of time periodic traveling wave solutions to a periodic diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition system. Under certain conditions, we prove that there exists a maximal wave speed c(*) such that for each wave speed c \u2264 c(*), there is a time periodic traveling wave connecting two semi-trivial periodic solutions of the corresponding kinetic system. It is shown that such a traveling wave is unique modulo translation and is monotone with respect to its co-moving frame coordinate. We also show that the traveling wave solutions with wave speed c < c(*) are asymptotically stable in certain sense. In addition, we establish the nonexistence of time periodic traveling waves for nonzero speed c > c(*).",
    "title": "Existence, Uniqueness and Asymptotic Stability of Time Periodic Traveling Waves for a Periodic Lotka-Volterra Competition System with Diffusion.",
    "abstract": "1.\u2002Predation rate (PR) and kill rate are both fundamental statistics for understanding predation. However, relatively little is known about how these statistics relate to one another and how they relate to prey population dynamics. We assess these relationships across three systems where wolf-prey dynamics have been observed for 41 years (Isle Royale), 19 years (Banff) and 12 years (Yellowstone). 2.\u2002To provide context for this empirical assessment, we developed theoretical predictions of the relationship between kill rate and PR under a broad range of predator-prey models including predator-dependent, ratio-dependent and Lotka-Volterra dynamics. 3.\u2002The theoretical predictions indicate that kill rate can be related to PR in a variety of diverse ways (e.g. positive, negative, unrelated) that depend on the nature of predator-prey dynamics (e.g. structure of the functional response). These simulations also suggested that the ratio of predator-to-prey is a good predictor of prey growth rate. That result motivated us to assess the empirical relationship between the ratio and prey growth rate for each of the three study sites. 4.\u2002The empirical relationships indicate that PR is not well predicted by kill rate, but is better predicted by the ratio of predator-to-prey. Kill rate is also a poor predictor of prey growth rate. However, PR and ratio of predator-to-prey each explained significant portions of variation in prey growth rate for two of the three study sites. 5.\u2002Our analyses offer two general insights. First, Isle Royale, Banff and Yellowstone are similar insomuch as they all include wolves preying on large ungulates. However, they also differ in species diversity of predator and prey communities, exploitation by humans and the role of dispersal. Even with the benefit of our analysis, it remains difficult to judge whether to be more impressed by the similarities or differences. This difficulty nicely illustrates a fundamental property of ecological communities. Second, kill rate is the primary statistic for many traditional models of predation. However, our work suggests that kill rate and PR are similarly important for understanding why predation is such a complex process.",
    "title": "Predicting prey population dynamics from kill rate, predation rate and predator-prey ratios in three wolf-ungulate systems.",
    "abstract": "Predator-prey interactions are thought by many researchers to define both modern ecosystems and past macroevolutionary events. In modern ecosystems, experimental removal or addition of taxa is often used to determine trophic relationships and predator identity. Both characteristics are notoriously difficult to infer in the fossil record, where evidence of predation is usually limited to damage from failed attacks, individual stomach contents, one-sided escalation, or modern analogs. As a result, the role of predation in macroevolution is often dismissed in favor of competition and abiotic factors. Here we show that the end-Devonian Hangenberg event (359 Mya) was a natural experiment in which vertebrate predators were both removed and added to an otherwise stable prey fauna, revealing specific and persistent trophic interactions. Despite apparently favorable environmental conditions, crinoids diversified only after removal of their vertebrate consumers, exhibiting predatory release on a geological time scale. In contrast, later Mississippian (359-318 Mya) camerate crinoids declined precipitously in the face of increasing predation pressure from new durophagous fishes. Camerate failure is linked to the retention of obsolete defenses or \"legacy adaptations\" that prevented coevolutionary escalation. Our results suggest that major crinoid evolutionary phenomena, including rapid diversification, faunal turnover, and species selection, might be linked to vertebrate predation. Thus, interactions observed in small ecosystems, such as Lotka-Volterra cycles and trophic cascades, could operate at geologic time scales and higher taxonomic ranks. Both trophic knock-on effects and retention of obsolete traits might be common in the aftermath of predator extinction.",
    "title": "Persistent predator-prey dynamics revealed by mass extinction.",
    "abstract": "Competition between background microflora and microbial pathogens raises questions about the application of predictive microbiology in situ, i.e., in non-sterile naturally contaminated foods. In this article, we present a review of the models developed in predictive microbiology to describe interactions between microflora in foods, with a special focus on two approaches: one based on the Jameson effect (simultaneous deceleration of all microbial populations) and one based on the Lotka-Volterra competition model. As an illustration of the potential of these models, we propose various modeling examples in estimation and in prediction of microbial growth curves, all related to the behavior of Listeria monocytogenes with lactic acid bacteria in three pork meat products (fresh pork meat and two types of diced bacon).",
    "title": "Modeling microbial competition in food: application to the behavior of Listeria monocytogenes and lactic acid flora in pork meat products.",
    "abstract": "With the aid of Volterra multiplier, we study ecological equations for both tree system and cycle system. We obtain a set of sufficient conditions for the ultimate boundedness to nonautonomous n-dimensional Lotka-Volterra tree systems with continuous time delay. The criteria are applicable to cooperative model, competition model, and predator-prey model. As to cycle system, we consider a three-dimensional predator-prey Lotka-Volterra system. In order to get a condition under which the system is globally asymptotic stable, we obtain a Volterra multiplier, so that in a parameter region the system is with the Volterra multiplier it is globally stable. We have also proved that in regions in which the condition is not satisfied, the system is unstable or at least it is not globally stable. Therefore, we say that the three-dimensional cycle system is with global bifurcation.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra system with Volterra multiplier.",
    "abstract": "By assuming the random intensity of selection, the emergence of cooperation on a network is studied. We constructed an evolutionary model in which an individual plays the prisoner's dilemma game, and updates both its strategy and neighbor connections in response to its relative success in the game. The constant (strong or weak) and random intensities of selection are compared. The random intensities of selection are introduced to realize complex environmental effects on the fitness of each individual. Breaking the links on the network is realized according to fixed global parameters. We found that cooperative clusters emerged when cooperators unilaterally broke the link with defectors. The emergent networks under these conditions had a high clustering coefficient and shared some properties with a scale-free network. In addition, after a cooperator with high fitness emerged circumstantially under the random intensity of selection, we observed that the cooperative linkages emerged and spread rapidly through the network. This situation frequently occurred because of the stochastic effect on the fitness of cooperators. Thus, the origin of such phenomena is qualitatively different from the Lotka-Volterra system in which deterministic processes control the system. Cooperative linkages spread more when defectors maintained many links with cooperators.",
    "title": "Emergence of cooperative linkages by random intensity of selection on a network.",
    "abstract": "A complete classification for the global dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra two species competition model with seasonal succession is obtained via the stability analysis of equilibria and the theory of monotone dynamical systems. The effects of two death rates in the bad season and the proportion of the good season on the competition outcomes are also discussed.",
    "title": "A Lotka-Volterra competition model with seasonal succession.",
    "abstract": "The article presents the solutions of Lotka-Volterra equations of fractional-order time derivatives with the help of analytical method of nonlinear problem called the homotopy perturbation method (HPM). By using initial values, the explicit solutions of predator and prey populations for different particular cases have been derived. The numerical solutions show that only a few iterations are needed to obtain accurate approximate solutions. The method performs extremely well in terms of efficiency and simplicity to solve this historical biological model.",
    "title": "A mathematical model on fractional Lotka-Volterra equations.",
    "abstract": "This article re-analyses a prey-predator model with a refuge introduced by one of the founders of population ecology Gause and his co-workers to explain discrepancies between their observations and predictions of the Lotka-Volterra prey-predator model. They replaced the linear functional response used by Lotka and Volterra by a saturating functional response with a discontinuity at a critical prey density. At concentrations below this critical density prey were effectively in a refuge while at a higher densities they were available to predators. Thus, their functional response was of the Holling type III. They analyzed this model and predicted existence of a limit cycle in predator-prey dynamics. In this article I show that their model is ill posed, because trajectories are not well defined. Using the Filippov method, I define and analyze solutions of the Gause model. I show that depending on parameter values, there are three possibilities: (1) trajectories converge to a limit cycle, as predicted by Gause, (2) trajectories converge to an equilibrium, or (3) the prey population escapes predator control and grows to infinity.",
    "title": "On the Gause predator-prey model with a refuge: a fresh look at the history.",
    "abstract": "We study the synchronization properties of the Kuramoto model of coupled phase oscillators on a general network. Here we distinguish the ability of such a system to self-synchronize from the stability of this behavior. While self-synchronization is a consequence of genuine nonperturbative dynamics, the stability in dynamical systems is usually accessible by fluctuations about a fixed point, here taken to be the phase synchronized solution. We examine this problem in terms of modes of the graph Laplacian, by which the absolute Lyapunov stability of the phase synchronized fixed point is readily demonstrated. Departures from stability are seen to arise at the next order in fluctuations where, depending on a truncation in the number of time-dependent Laplacian modes, the dynamical equations can be reduced to forms resembling those for species population models, the logistic and the Lotka-Volterra equations. Methods from these systems are exploited to analytically derive new critical couplings signaling deviation from classical stability. We thereby analytically explain the existence of an intermediate regime of behavior between incoherence and synchronization, where system wide periodic behaviors are exhibited and stable, unstable, and hyperbolic fixed points can be identified. We discuss these results in light of numerical solutions of the equations of motion for various networks.",
    "title": "From incoherence to synchronicity in the network Kuramoto model.",
    "abstract": "We study several variants of the stochastic four-state rock-paper-scissors game or, equivalently, cyclic three-species predator-prey models with conserved total particle density, by means of Monte Carlo simulations on one- and two-dimensional lattices. Specifically, we investigate the influence of spatial variability of the reaction rates and site occupancy restrictions on the transient oscillations of the species densities and on spatial correlation functions in the quasistationary coexistence state. For small systems, we also numerically determine the dependence of typical extinction times on the number of lattice sites. In stark contrast with two-species stochastic Lotka-Volterra systems, we find that for our three-species models with cyclic competition quenched disorder in the reaction rates has very little effect on the dynamics and the long-time properties of the coexistence state. Similarly, we observe that site restriction only has a minor influence on the system's dynamical properties. Our results therefore demonstrate that the features of the spatial rock-paper-scissors system are remarkably robust with respect to model variations, and stochastic fluctuations as well as spatial correlations play a comparatively minor role.",
    "title": "Spatial rock-paper-scissors models with inhomogeneous reaction rates.",
    "abstract": "Simple temporal models that ignore the spatial nature of interactions and track only changes in mean quantities, such as global densities, are typically used under the unrealistic assumption that individuals are well mixed. These so-called mean-field models are often considered overly simplified, given the ample evidence for distributed interactions and spatial heterogeneity over broad ranges of scales. Here, we present one reason why such simple population models may work even when mass-action assumptions do not hold: spatial structure is present but it relates to global densities in a special way. With an individual-based predator-prey model that is spatial and stochastic, and whose mean-field counterpart is the classic Lotka-Volterra model, we show that the global densities and densities of pairs (or spatial covariances) establish a ",
    "title": "Simple models for complex systems: exploiting the relationship between local and global densities.",
    "abstract": "We introduce a test for robustness of heteroclinic cycles that appear in neural microcircuits modeled as coupled dynamical cells. Robust heteroclinic cycles (RHCs) can appear as robust attractors in Lotka-Volterra-type winnerless competition (WLC) models as well as in more general coupled and/or symmetric systems. It has been previously suggested that RHCs may be relevant to a range of neural activities, from encoding and binding to spatio-temporal sequence generation.The robustness or otherwise of such cycles depends both on the coupling structure and the internal structure of the neurons. We verify that robust heteroclinic cycles can appear in systems of three identical cells, but only if we require perturbations to preserve some invariant subspaces for the individual cells. On the other hand, heteroclinic attractors can appear robustly in systems of four or more identical cells for some symmetric coupling patterns, without restriction on the internal dynamics of the cells.",
    "title": "Criteria for robustness of heteroclinic cycles in neural microcircuits.",
    "abstract": "The objective of this study was to create a clinically applicable mathematical model of immunotherapy for cancer and use it to explore differences between successful and unsuccessful treatment scenarios. The simplified predator-prey model includes four lumped parameters: tumor growth rate, g; immune cell killing efficiency, k; immune cell signaling factor, \u03bb; and immune cell half-life decay, \u03bc. The predator-prey equations as functions of time, t, for normalized tumor cell numbers, y, (the prey) and immunocyte numbers, \u00d7, (the predators) are: dy/dt = gy - kx and dx/dt = \u03bbxy - \u03bcx. A parameter estimation procedure that capitalizes on available clinical data and the timing of clinically observable phenomena gives mid-range benchmarks for parameters representing the unstable equilibrium case in which the tumor neither grows nor shrinks. Departure from this equilibrium results in oscillations in tumor cell numbers and in many cases complete elimination of the tumor. Several paradoxical phenomena are predicted, including increasing tumor cell numbers prior to a population crash, apparent cure with late recurrence, one or more cycles of tumor growth prior to eventual tumor elimination, and improved tumor killing with initially weaker immune parameters or smaller initial populations of immune cells. The model and the parameter estimation techniques are easily adapted to various human cancers that evoke an immune response. They may help clinicians understand and predict certain strange and unexpected effects in the world of tumor immunity and lead to the design of clinical trials to test improved treatment protocols for patients.",
    "title": "Predicting success or failure of immunotherapy for cancer: insights from a clinically applicable mathematical model.",
    "abstract": "The mechanisms that drive species coexistence and community dynamics have long puzzled ecologists. Here, we explain species coexistence, size structure and diversity patterns in a phytoplankton community using a combination of four fundamental factors: organism traits, size-based constraints, hydrology and species competition. Using a 'microscopic' Lotka-Volterra competition (MLVC) model (i.e. with explicit recipes to compute its parameters), we provide a mechanistic explanation of species coexistence along a niche axis (i.e. organismic volume). We based our model on empirically measured quantities, minimal ecological assumptions and stochastic processes. In nature, we found aggregated patterns of species biovolume (i.e. clumps) along the volume axis and a peak in species richness. Both patterns were reproduced by the MLVC model. Observed clumps corresponded to niche zones (volumes) where species fitness was highest, or where fitness was equal among competing species. The latter implies the action of equalizing processes, which would suggest emergent neutrality as a plausible mechanism to explain community patterns.",
    "title": "Emergent neutrality drives phytoplankton species coexistence.",
    "abstract": "The analysis of ecological models often focuses on their asymptotic behavior, but there is increasing recognition that it is important to understand the role of transient behavior. By introducing a time delay into a model of coral-algal interactions in Caribbean coral reefs that exhibits alternative stable states (a favorable coral rich state and a degraded coral-depleted state), we demonstrate the criticality of understanding the basins of attraction for stable equilibria in addition to the systems' asymptotic behavior. Specifically, we show that although the introduction of a time delay into the model does not change the asymptotic stability of the stable equilibria, there are significant changes to their basins of attraction. An understanding of these effects is necessary when determining appropriate reef management options. We then demonstrate that this is a general phenomenon by considering similar behavior underlying the changes in the basins of attraction in a simple Lotka-Volterra model of competition.",
    "title": "The effect of time delays on Caribbean coral-algal interactions.",
    "abstract": "This comment addresses critics on the claimed stability of solution to the accelerated-predator-satiety Lotka-Volterra predator-prey problem, proposed by Dubey al. (2010. A solution to the accelerated-predator-satiety Lotka-Volterra predator-prey problem using Boubaker polynomial expansion scheme. Journal of Theoretical Biology 264, 154-160). Critics are based on incompatibilities between the claimed asymptotic behavior and the presumed Malthusian growth of prey population in absence of predator.",
    "title": "The stability of the Boubaker polynomials expansion scheme (BPES)-based solution to Lotka-Volterra problem.",
    "abstract": "In randomly assembled communities, diversity is known to have a destabilizing effect. Evolution may affect this result, but our theoretical knowledge of its role is mostly limited to models of small food webs. In the present article, I introduce evolution in a two-species Lotka-Volterra model in which I vary the interaction type and the cost constraining evolution. Regardless of the cost type, evolution tends to stabilize the dynamics more often in trophic interactions than for mutualism or competition. I then use simulations to study the effect of evolution in larger communities that contain all interaction types. Results suggest that evolution usually stabilizes the dynamics. This stabilizing effect is stronger when evolution affects trophic interactions, but happens for all interaction types. Stabilization decreases with diversity and evolution becomes destabilizing in very diverse communities. This suggests that evolution may not counteract the destabilizing effect of diversity observed in random communities.",
    "title": "Influence of evolution on the stability of ecological communities.",
    "abstract": "The debate between niche-based and neutral community theories centers around the question of which forces shape predominantly ecological communities. Niche theory attributes a central role to niche differences between species, which generate a difference between the strength of intra- and interspecific interactions. Neutral theory attributes a central role to migration processes and demographic stochasticity. One possibility to bridge these two theories is to combine them in a common mathematical framework. Here we propose a mathematical model that integrates the two perspectives. From a niche-based perspective, our model can be interpreted as a Lotka-Volterra model with symmetric interactions in which we introduce immigration and demographic stochasticity. From a neutral perspective, it can be interpreted as Hubbell's local community model in which we introduce a difference between intra- and interspecific interactions. We investigate the stationary species abundance distribution and other community properties as functions of the interaction coefficient, the immigration rate and the strength of demographic stochasticity.",
    "title": "A mathematical synthesis of niche and neutral theories in community ecology.",
    "abstract": "Recently we have introduced a simplified model of ecosystem assembly (Capit\u00e1n et al., 2009) for which we are able to map out all assembly pathways generated by external invasions in an exact manner. In this paper we provide a deeper analysis of the model, obtaining analytical results and introducing some approximations which allow us to reconstruct the results of our previous work. In particular, we show that the population dynamics equations of a very general class of trophic-level structured food-web have an unique interior equilibrium point which is globally stable. We show analytically that communities found as end states of the assembly process are pyramidal and we find that the equilibrium abundance of any species at any trophic level is approximately inversely proportional to the number of species in that level. We also find that the per capita growth rate of a top predator invading a resident community is key to understand the appearance of complex end states reported in our previous work. The sign of these rates allows us to separate regions in the space of parameters where the end state is either a single community or a complex set containing more than one community. We have also built up analytical approximations to the time evolution of species abundances that allow us to determine, with high accuracy, the sequence of extinctions that an invasion may cause. Finally we apply this analysis to obtain the communities in the end states. To test the accuracy of the transition probability matrix generated by this analytical procedure for the end states, we have compared averages over those sets with those obtained from the graph derived by numerical integration of the Lotka-Volterra equations. The agreement is excellent.",
    "title": "Species assembly in model ecosystems, I: Analysis of the population model and the invasion dynamics.",
    "abstract": "The key contribution of this work is to introduce a mathematical framework to understand self-organized dynamics in the brain that can explain certain aspects of itinerant behavior. Specifically, we introduce a model based upon the coupling of generalized Lotka-Volterra systems. This coupling is based upon competition for common resources. The system can be regarded as a normal or canonical form for any distributed system that shows self-organized dynamics that entail winnerless competition. Crucially, we will show that some of the fundamental instabilities that arise in these coupled systems are remarkably similar to endogenous activity seen in the brain (using EEG and fMRI). Furthermore, by changing a small subset of the system's parameters we can produce bifurcations and metastable sequential dynamics changing, which bear a remarkable similarity to pathological brain states seen in psychiatry. In what follows, we will consider the coupling of two macroscopic modes of brain activity, which, in a purely descriptive fashion, we will label as cognitive and emotional modes. Our aim is to examine the dynamical structures that emerge when coupling these two modes and relate them tentatively to brain activity in normal and non-normal states.",
    "title": "Dynamical principles of emotion-cognition interaction: mathematical images of mental disorders.",
    "abstract": "We consider a Lotka-Volterra system of two competing species subject to multiplicative \u03b1-stable L\u00e9vy noise. The interaction parameter between the species is a random process which obeys a stochastic differential equation with a generalized bistable potential in the presence both of a periodic driving term and an additive \u03b1-stable L\u00e9vy noise. We study the species dynamics, which is characterized by two different regimes, exclusion of one species and coexistence of both. We find quasiperiodic oscillations and stochastic resonance phenomenon in the dynamics of the competing species, analyzing the role of the L\u00e9vy noise sources.",
    "title": "Dynamics of two competing species in the presence of L\u00e9vy noise sources.",
    "abstract": "Sea-ice floe-size distribution (FSD) in ice-pack covered seas influences many aspects of ocean-atmosphere interactions. However, data concerning FSD in the polar oceans are still sparse and processes shaping the observed FSD properties are poorly understood. Typically, power-law FSDs are assumed although no feasible explanation has been provided neither for this one nor for other properties of the observed distributions. Consequently, no model exists capable of predicting FSD parameters in any particular situation. Here I show that the observed FSDs can be well represented by a truncated Pareto distribution P(x)=x(-1-\u03b1)\u2009exp[(1-\u03b1)/x] , which is an emergent property of a certain group of multiplicative stochastic systems, described by the generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) equation. Building upon this recognition, a possibility of developing a simple agent-based GLV-type sea-ice model is considered. Contrary to simple power-law FSDs, GLV gives consistent estimates of the total floe perimeter, as well as floe-area distribution in agreement with observations.",
    "title": "Sea-ice floe-size distribution in the context of spontaneous scaling emergence in stochastic systems.",
    "abstract": "Continuous attractors of Lotka-Volterra recurrent neural networks (LV RNNs) with infinite neurons are studied in this brief. A continuous attractor is a collection of connected equilibria, and it has been recognized as a suitable model for describing the encoding of continuous stimuli in neural networks. The existence of the continuous attractors depends on many factors such as the connectivity and the external inputs of the network. A continuous attractor can be stable or unstable. It is shown in this brief that a LV RNN can possess multiple continuous attractors if the synaptic connections and the external inputs are Gussian-like in shape. Moreover, both stable and unstable continuous attractors can coexist in a network. Explicit expressions of the continuous attractors are calculated. Simulations are employed to illustrate the theory.",
    "title": "Continuous attractors of Lotka-Volterra recurrent neural networks with infinite neurons.",
    "abstract": "This article introduces a predator-prey model with the prey structured by body size, based on reports in the literature that predation rates are prey-size specific. The model is built on the foundation of the one-species physiologically structured models studied earlier. Three types of equilibria are found: extinction, multiple prey-only equilibria and possibly multiple predator-prey coexistence equilibria. The stabilities of the equilibria are investigated. Comparison is made with the underlying ODE Lotka-Volterra model. It turns out that the ODE model can exhibit sustain oscillations if there is an Allee effect in the net reproduction rate, that is the net reproduction rate grows for some range of the prey's population size. In contrast, it is shown that the structured PDE model can exhibit sustain oscillations even if the net reproductive rate is strictly declining with prey population size. We find that predation, even size-non-specific linear predation can destabilize a stable prey-only equilibrium, if reproduction is size specific and limited to individuals of large enough size. Furthermore, we show that size-specific predation can also destabilize the predator-prey equilibrium in the PDE model. We surmise that size-specific predation allows for temporary prey escape which is responsible for destabilization in the predator-prey dynamics.",
    "title": "Oscillations in a size-structured prey-predator model.",
    "abstract": "Understanding how complexity persists in nature is a long-standing goal of ecologists. In theoretical ecology, local stability is a widely used measure of ecosystem persistence and has made a major contribution to the ecosystem stability-complexity debate over the last few decades. However, permanence is coming to be regarded as a more satisfactory definition of ecosystem persistence and has relatively recently become available as a tool for assessing the global stability of Lotka-Volterra communities. Here we document positive relationships between permanence and Lotka-Volterra food web complexity and report a positive correlation between the probability of local stability and permanence. We investigate further the frequency of discrepancy (attributed to fragile systems that are locally stable but not permanent or locally unstable systems that are permanent and have cyclic or chaotic dynamics), associate non-permanence with the local stability or instability of equilibria on the boundary of the state-space, and investigate how these vary with aspects of ecosystem complexity. We find that locally stable interior equilibria tend to have all locally unstable boundary equilibria. Since a locally stable boundary is inconsistent with permanent dynamics, this can explain the observed positive correlation between local interior stability and permanence. Our key finding is that, at least in Lotka-Volterra model ecosystems, local stability may be a better measure of persistence than previously thought.",
    "title": "On the generality of stability-complexity relationships in Lotka-Volterra ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "We investigate whether asymmetric fast migration can modify the predictions of classical competition theory and, in particular revert species dominance. We consider a model of two species competing for an implicit resource on a habitat divided into two patches. Both patches are connected through constant migration rates and in each patch local dynamics are driven by a Lotka-Volterra competition system. Local competition is asymmetric with the same superior competitor in both patches. Migration is asymmetric, species dependent and fast in comparison to local competitive interactions. The species and patches are taken to be otherwise similar: in both patches we assume the same carrying capacities for both species, and the same growth rates and pair-wise competition coefficients for each species. We show that global dynamics can be described by a classical Lotka-Volterra competition model. We found that by modifying the ratio of intraspecific migration rates for both species all possible combinations of global species relative dominance can be achieved. We find specific conditions for which the local superior competitor is globally excluded. This is to our knowledge the first study showing that fast asymmetric migration can lead to inferior competitor dominance in a homogeneous environment. We conclude that disparity of temporal scales between migration and local dynamics may have important consequences for the maintenance of biodiversity in spatially structured populations.",
    "title": "Competition and species coexistence in a metapopulation model: can fast asymmetric migration reverse the outcome of competition in a homogeneous environment?",
    "abstract": "The autochthonous tick Boophilus decoloratus, and the invasive species Bo. microplus, the tick most threatening the livestock industry in Africa, show complex interactions in their interspecific rivalry. This study was conducted to specify the conditions under which the two competitors can co-exist in equilibrium, and to provide insight into their climate-dependant parapatric distribution in Tanzania. A model of the Lotka-Volterra type was used, taking into account population dispersal and interactions of various kinds. If the model allowed for immunity-mediated competition on cattle, reproductive interference, and an external mortality factor, it explained fairly well the field observation that the borderline between these ticks loosely follows the 22-23\u00b0C isotherm and the 58 mm isohyet (i.e. ~700 mm of annual rainfall total). Simulations fully compatible with the pattern of real co-existing populations of Bo. decoloratus and Bo. microplus, characterized by a pronounced population density trough and mutual exclusion of the two ticks on cattle in an intermediary zone between their distributional ranges, were, however, achieved only if the model also implemented a hypothetical factor responsible for some mortality upon encounter of one tick with the other, interpretable as an interaction through a shared pathogen(s). This study also demonstrated the importance of non-cattle hosts, enabling the autochthon to avoid competition with Bo. microplus, for the behaviour of the modelled system. The simulations indicate that a substantial reduction of wildlife habitats and consequently of Bo. decoloratus refugia, may accelerate the replacement of Bo. decoloratus with Bo. microplus much faster than climatic changes might do.",
    "title": "Conditions for stable parapatric coexistence between Boophilus decoloratus and B. microplus ticks: a simulation study using the competitive Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Classical theory states that if conspecifics have a greater competitive effect on individuals than heterospecifics then coexistence should occur, and ecologists have spent much effort exploring ways to generate coexistence when this condition is not met. One process that has received particular attention in the last two decades is the effect of within-species aggregation and between-species segregation caused by limited dispersal. A number of theories have emerged as to how this common spatial pattern may help maintain biodiversity, and the general conclusion that has emerged is that spatial structure should almost always help competitors to coexist. But does spatial structure really always aid biodiversity? An individual-based model based on a spatial extension to the Lotka-Volterra competition equations and its mathematical approximation are presented to determine how local spatial structure may affect communities in which there is strong niche differentiation. Two main results emerge from analyses of the models. First, intraspecific competition being greater than interspecific competition coexistence may no longer be sufficient to generate coexistence when spatial structure is strong; and the species with the highest intraspecific competition coefficient is likely to be excluded. Second, dominance hierarchies may be reversed so that a competitor may become the subordinate species when dispersal and competitive interactions occur over short spatial scales. Both results emerge because, even though a species may be globally rare, intense clumping means most interactions occur between conspecifics, and if this is very intense it may be sufficient to stop a species from invading. However, long-range dispersal may ameliorate these effects by reducing the frequency of conspecific interactions, and this is especially important when a species is rare since it is very likely to land in an area dominated by heterospecifics. These results are most relevant to sessile organisms that produce relatively few viable offspring that survive to adulthood and that have relatively weak dispersal. The conclusion is that within-species aggregation may hinder coexistence when the toughest competitor an individual is likely to face is a member of its own species.",
    "title": "When does local spatial structure hinder competitive coexistence and reverse competitive hierarchies?",
    "abstract": "Understanding under what conditions interacting populations, whether they be plants, animals, or viral particles, coexist is a question of theoretical and practical importance in population biology. Both biotic interactions and environmental fluctuations are key factors that can facilitate or disrupt coexistence. To better understand this interplay between these deterministic and stochastic forces, we develop a mathematical theory extending the nonlinear theory of permanence for deterministic systems to stochastic difference and differential equations. Our condition for coexistence requires that there is a fixed set of weights associated with the interacting populations and this weighted combination of populations' invasion rates is positive for any (ergodic) stationary distribution associated with a sub collection of populations. Here, an invasion rate corresponds to an average per-capita growth rate along a stationary distribution. When this condition holds and there is sufficient noise in the system, we show that the populations approach a unique positive stationary distribution. Moreover, we show that our coexistence criterion is robust to small perturbations of the model functions. Using this theory, we illustrate that (i) environmental noise enhances or inhibits coexistence in communities with rock-paper-scissor dynamics depending on correlations between interspecific demographic rates, (ii) stochastic variation in mortality rates has no effect on the coexistence criteria for discrete-time Lotka-Volterra communities, and (iii) random forcing can promote genetic diversity in the presence of exploitative interactions.",
    "title": "Persistence in fluctuating environments.",
    "abstract": "Cyclic dominance of species is a potential mechanism for maintaining biodiversity. The author investigates the generalised scenario when the cyclic dominance of three or more interacting species is described by a non-symmetric matrix game that has multiple Nash equilibria. Modified Lotka-Volterra equations are proposed to incorporate the effects of swarming, and the condition for biodiversity is derived. The species are modelled using replicator equations, where each member of the species is assigned a fitness value. The authors show, for the first time, that the 'swarming effect' has an important role to play in the maintenance of biodiversity. The authors have also discovered the existence of a critical value of the swarming parameter for a given mobility, above which there is a high probability of existence of biodiversity.",
    "title": "Effect of swarming on biodiversity in non-symmetric rock-paper-scissor game.",
    "abstract": "Molecular programming aims to systematically engineer molecular and chemical systems of autonomous function and ever-increasing complexity. A key goal is to develop embedded control circuitry within a chemical system to direct molecular events. Here we show that systems of DNA molecules can be constructed that closely approximate the dynamic behavior of arbitrary systems of coupled chemical reactions. By using strand displacement reactions as a primitive, we construct reaction cascades with effectively unimolecular and bimolecular kinetics. Our construction allows individual reactions to be coupled in arbitrary ways such that reactants can participate in multiple reactions simultaneously, reproducing the desired dynamical properties. Thus arbitrary systems of chemical equations can be compiled into real chemical systems. We illustrate our method on the Lotka-Volterra oscillator, a limit-cycle oscillator, a chaotic system, and systems implementing feedback digital logic and algorithmic behavior.",
    "title": "DNA as a universal substrate for chemical kinetics.",
    "abstract": "This paper studies a class of dynamical systems that model multi-species ecosystems. These systems are 'resource bounded' in the sense that species compete to utilize an underlying limiting resource or substrate. This boundedness means that the relevant state space can be reduced to a simplex, with coordinates representing the proportions of substrate utilized by the various species. If the vector field is inward pointing on the boundary of the simplex, the state space is forward invariant under the system flow, a requirement that can be interpreted as the presence of non-zero exogenous recruitment. We consider conditions under which these model systems have a unique interior equilibrium that is globally asymptotically stable. The systems we consider generalize classical multi-species Lotka-Volterra systems, the behaviour of which is characterized by properties of the community (or interaction) matrix. However, the more general systems considered here are not characterized by a single matrix, but rather a family of matrices. We develop a set of 'explicit conditions' on the basis of a notion of 'uniform diagonal dominance' for such a family of matrices, that allows us to extract a set of sufficient conditions for global asymptotic stability based on properties of a single, derived matrix. Examples of these explicit conditions are discussed.",
    "title": "Conditions for global dynamic stability of a class of resource-bounded model ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "Native salmonid fish have been displaced worldwide by nonnatives through hybridization, competition, and predation, but the dynamics of these factors are poorly understood. We apply stochastic Lotka-Volterra models to the displacement of cutthroat trout by rainbow/hybrid trout in the Snake River, Idaho, USA. Cutthroat trout are susceptible to hybridization in the river but are reproductively isolated in tributaries via removal of migratory rainbow/hybrid spawners at weirs. Based on information-theoretic analysis, population data provide evidence that hybridization was the primary mechanism for cutthroat trout displacement in the first 17 years of the invasion. However, under some parameter values, the data provide evidence for a model in which interaction occurs among fish from both river and tributary subpopulations. This situation is likely to occur when tributary-spawned cutthroat trout out-migrate to the river as fry. The resulting competition with rainbow/hybrid trout can result in the extinction of cutthroat trout even when reproductive segregation is maintained.",
    "title": "Modelling competition and hybridization between native cutthroat trout and nonnative rainbow and hybrid trout.",
    "abstract": "A graphical technique is given for determining the outcome of two species competition for two resources. This method is unifying in the sense that the graphical criterion leading to the various outcomes of competition are consistent across most of the spectrum of resource types (from those that fulfill the same growth needs to those that fulfill different needs) regardless of the classification method used, and the resulting graphs bear a striking resemblance to the well-known phase portraits for two species Lotka-Volterra competition. Our graphical method complements that of Tilman. Both include zero net growth isoclines. However, instead of using the consumption vectors at potential coexistence equilibria to determine input resource concentrations leading to specific competitive outcomes, we introduce curves bounding the feasible set (the set where the resource concentrations of any equilibrium solution must be located). The washout equilibrium (corresponding to the supply point) occurs at an intersection of curves defining the feasible set boundary. The resource concentrations of all other equilibria are found where zero net growth isoclines either intersect each other inside the feasible set or they intersect the feasible set boundary. A species has positive biomass at such an equilibrium only if its zero net growth isocline is involved in such an intersection. The competitive outcomes are then determined from the position of the single species equilibria, just as in the phase portrait analysis for classical competition (rather than from information at potential coexistence equilibria as in Tilman's method).",
    "title": "Classical and resource-based competition: a unifying graphical approach.",
    "abstract": "The competitive layer model (CLM) can be described by an optimization problem. The problem can be further formulated by an energy function, called the CLM energy function, in the subspace of nonnegative orthant. The set of minimum points of the CLM energy function forms the set of solutions of the CLM problem. Solving the CLM problem means to find out such solutions. Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) can be used to implement the CLM to solve the CLM problem. The key point is to make the set of minimum points of the CLM energy function just correspond to the set of stable attractors of the recurrent neural networks. This paper proposes to use Lotka-Volterra RNNs (LV RNNs) to implement the CLM. The contribution of this paper is to establish foundations of implementing the CLM by LV RNNs. The contribution mainly contains three parts. The first part is on the CLM energy function. Necessary and sufficient conditions for minimum points of the CLM energy function are established by detailed study. The second part is on the convergence of the proposed model of the LV RNNs. It is proven that interesting trajectories are convergent. The third part is the most important. It proves that the set of stable attractors of the proposed LV RNN just equals the set of minimum points of the CLM energy function in the nonnegative orthant. Thus, the LV RNNs can be used to solve the problem of the CLM. It is believed that by establishing such basic rigorous theories, more and interesting applications of the CLM can be found.",
    "title": "Foundations of implementing the competitive layer model by Lotka-Volterra recurrent neural networks.",
    "abstract": "In this study, an analytical method is introduced for the identification of predator-prey populations time-dependent evolution in a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model which takes into account the concept of accelerated-predator-satiety. Oppositely to most of the predator-prey problem models, the actual model does not suppose that the predation is strictly proportional to the prey density. In reference to some recent experimental results and particularly to the conclusions of May (1973) about predators which are 'never not hungry', an accelerated satiety function is matched with the initial conventional equations. Solutions are plotted and compared to some relevant ones. The obtained trends are in good agreement with many standard Lotka-Volterra solutions except for the asymptotic behaviour.",
    "title": "A solution to the accelerated-predator-satiety Lotka-Volterra predator-prey problem using Boubaker polynomial expansion scheme.",
    "abstract": "The goal of this work is the monitoring of the corresponding species in a class of predator-prey systems, this issue is important from the ecology point of view to analyze the population dynamics. The above is done via a nonlinear observer design which contains on its structure a high order polynomial form of the estimation error. A theoretical frame is provided in order to show the convergence characteristics of the proposed observer, where it can be concluded that the performance of the observer is improved as the order of the polynomial is high. The proposed methodology is applied to a class of Lotka-Volterra systems with two and three species. Finally, numerical simulations present the performance of the proposed observer.",
    "title": "Monitoring in a predator-prey systems via a class of high order observer design.",
    "abstract": "Fecal indicator bacteria (FIB) have long been used as a marker of fecal pollution in surface waters subject to point source and non-point source discharges of treated or untreated human waste. In this paper, we set out to determine the source(s) of elevated FIB concentrations in Cucamonga Creek, a concrete-lined urban stream in southern California. Flow in the creek consists primarily of treated and disinfected wastewater effluent, mixed with relatively smaller but variable flow of runoff from the surrounding urban landscape. Dry and wet weather runoff contributes nearly 100% of FIB loading to Cucamonga Creek, while treated wastewater contributes significant loading of nutrients, including dissolved organic carbon (DOC), phosphorus, nitrate, and ammonium. FIB concentrations are strongly positively correlated with DOC concentration in runoff (Spearman's rho >or= 0.66, P <or= 0.037), and microcosm studies reveal that the survival of Escherichia coli and enterococci bacteria in runoff is strongly dependent on the concentration of both DOC and phosphorus. Below threshold concentrations of 7 and 0.07 mg/L, respectively, FIB die off exponentially (die-off rate 0.09 h(-1)). Above these thresholds, FIB either grow exponentially (growth rate 0.3 h(-1)) or exhibit a periodic steady-state in which bacterial concentrations fluctuate around some mean value. The periodic steady-state pattern is consistent with a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey oscillation model, and the clearance rate (20 microL predator(-1) h(-1)) obtained by fitting the model to our data is consistent with the hypothesis that predacious protozoa regulate FIB concentrations in runoff at high DOC concentrations. Collectively, these results indicate that FIB impairment of Cucamonga Creek is best viewed as an ecological phenomenon characterized by both bottom-up and top-down control.",
    "title": "Ecological control of fecal indicator bacteria in an urban stream.",
    "abstract": "Numerous situations exist in which a consumer uses two different kinds of resources, one fixed, the other renewable, e.g., nesting resources and food resources. With an elementary modification of the basic Lotka-Volterra consumer resource equations, we investigate the population dynamics of a consumer dependent on two resources, one fixed, the other renewable. Emerging from this structure is a situation of alternative attractors that remain qualitatively robust over a significant range of parameter values. However, a dramatic change in basins of attraction is induced by very small changes in parameters due to a global bifurcation. Noteworthy is the fact that the qualitative nature of the alternative equilibria remains constant but the dramatic change in the basins does not arise from subtle differences in initial conditions. Rather, there is a major restructuring of the vector field such that a permanent change involving large sets of initial conditions results from very small changes in parameters.",
    "title": "Consequential classes of resources: Subtle global bifurcation with dramatic ecological consequences in a simple population model.",
    "abstract": "The theoretical literature on human population dispersal processes at the large time and space scale is reviewed, including references to and discussions of relevant empirical data. The basic Fisher-KPP reaction-diffusion system is summarized for the single population situation, and developments relating to the Allee effect, density-dependent dispersal, time delay, advection, spatial and temporal heterogeneity, and anomalous and stratified diffusion are reviewed. Two- and three-population competitive reaction-diffusion systems of Lotka-Volterra type are also reviewed, as are dynamic approaches to carrying capacity that incorporate predator-prey instabilities, ecosystem engineering, and gene-culture coevolution.",
    "title": "Human dispersals: mathematical models and the archaeological record.",
    "abstract": "A trade-off between the parameters of Lotka-Volterra systems is used to give verifications of relations between intrinsic growth rate and limiting capacity and the stability type of the resulting dynamical system. The well known rock-paper-scissors game serves as a template for toxin mediated interactions, which is best represented by the bacteriocin producing Escherichia coli bacteria. There, we have three strains of the same species. The producer produces a toxin lethal to the sensitive, while the resistant is able to protect itself from that toxin. Due to the fact that there are costs for production and for resistance, a dynamics similar to the rock-paper-scissors game results. By using an adaptive dynamics approach for competitive Lotka-Volterra systems and assuming an inverse relation (trade-off) between intrinsic growth rate (IGR) and limiting capacity (LC) we obtain evolutionary and convergence stable relations between the IGR's and the LC's. Furthermore this evolutionary process leads to a phase topology of the population dynamics with a globally stable interior fixed point by leaving the interaction parameters constant. While the inverse trade-off stabilizes coexistence and does not allow branching, toxicity itself can promote diversification. The results are discussed in view of several biological examples indicating that the above results are structurally valid.",
    "title": "Evolutionary classification of toxin mediated interactions in microorganisms.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we study a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system with prey logistic growth under the telegraph noise. The telegraph noise switches at random two prey-predator models. The aim of this work is to determine the subset of omega-limit set of the system and show out the existence of a stationary distribution. We also focus on persistence of the predator and thus we look for conditions that allow persistence of the predator and prey community. We show that the asymptotic behaviour highly depends on the value of some constant lambda which is useful to make suitable predictions about the persistence of the system.",
    "title": "Evolution of Lotka-Volterra predator-prey systems under telegraph noise.",
    "abstract": "Birth-death processes often exhibit an oscillatory behavior. We investigate a particular case where the oscillation cycles are marginally stable on the mean-field level. An iconic example of such a system is the Lotka-Volterra model of predator-prey interaction. Fluctuation effects due to discreteness of the populations destroy the mean-field stability and eventually drive the system toward extinction of one or both species. We show that the corresponding extinction time scales as a certain power-law of the population sizes. This behavior should be contrasted with the extinction of models stable in the mean-field approximation. In the latter case the extinction time scales exponentially with size.",
    "title": "Extinction in the Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Strong competition between cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) specific for different epitopes in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection would have important implications for the design of an HIV vaccine. To investigate evidence for this type of competition, we analysed CTL response data from 97 patients with chronic HIV infection who were frequently sampled for up to 96 weeks. For each sample, CTL responses directed against a range of known epitopes in gag, pol and nef were measured using an enzyme-linked immunospot assay. The Lotka-Volterra model of competition was used to predict patterns that would be expected from these data if competitive interactions materially affect CTL numbers. In this application, the model predicts that when hosts make responses to a larger number of epitopes, they would have diminished responses to each epitope and that if one epitope-specific response becomes dramatically smaller, others would increase in size to compensate; conversely if one response grows, others would shrink. Analysis of the experimental data reveals results that are wholly inconsistent with these predictions. In hosts who respond to more epitopes, the average epitope-specific response tends to be larger, not smaller. Furthermore, responses to different epitopes almost always increase in unison or decrease in unison. Our findings are therefore inconsistent with the hypothesis that there is competition between CTL responses directed against different epitopes in HIV infection. This suggests that vaccines that elicit broad responses would be favourable because they would direct a larger total response against the virus, in addition to being more robust to the effects of CTL escape.",
    "title": "No evidence for competition between cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses in HIV-1 infection.",
    "abstract": "Without assuming the positivity of the amplification functions, we prove some M-matrix criteria for the R(n)(+)-global asymptotic stability of periodic Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with delays. By an extension of the Lyapunov method, we are able to include neural systems with multiple nonnegative periodic solutions and nonexponential convergence rate in our model and also include the Lotka-Volterra system, an important prototype of competitive neural networks, as a special case. The stability criteria for autonomous systems then follow as a corollary. Two numerical examples are provided to show that the limiting equilibrium or periodic solution need not be positive.",
    "title": "Asymptotic behavior of periodic Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with delays.",
    "abstract": "It has been known for long time that asexual organisms may affect the distribution of sexual taxa. In fact, such phenomenon is inherent in the concept of geographical parthenogenesis. On the other hand, it was generally hypothesized that sperm-dependent asexuals may not exercise the same effect on related sexual population, due to their dependence upon them as sperm-donors. Recently, however, it became clear that sperm-dependent asexuals may directly or indirectly affect the distribution of their sperm-hosts, but rather in a small scale. No study addressed the large-scale biogeographic effect of the coexistence of such asexuals with the sexual species. In our study we were interested in the effect of sexual-asexual coexistence on the speed of spatial expansion of the whole complex. We expand previously published Lotka-Volterra model of the coexistence of sexual and gynogenetic forms of spined loach (Cobitis; Teleostei) hybrid complex by diffusion. We show that presence of sperm-dependent parthenogens is likely to negatively affect the spatial expansion of sexuals, and hence the whole complex, compared to pure sexual population. Given that most of the known sperm-dependent asexual complexes are distributed in areas prone to climate-induced colonization/extinction events, we conclude that such mechanism may be an important agent in determining the biogeography of sexual taxa and therefore requires further attention including empirical tests.",
    "title": "Sperm-dependent parthenogens delay the spatial expansion of their sexual hosts.",
    "abstract": "We are interested in the long time behavior of a two-type density-dependent biological population conditioned on non-extinction, in both cases of competition or weak cooperation between the two species. This population is described by a stochastic Lotka-Volterra system, obtained as limit of renormalized interacting birth and death processes. The weak cooperation assumption allows the system not to blow up. We study the existence and uniqueness of a quasi-stationary distribution, that is convergence to equilibrium conditioned on non-extinction. To this aim we generalize in two-dimensions spectral tools developed for one-dimensional generalized Feller diffusion processes. The existence proof of a quasi-stationary distribution is reduced to the one for a d-dimensional Kolmogorov diffusion process under a symmetry assumption. The symmetry we need is satisfied under a local balance condition relying the ecological rates. A novelty is the outlined relation between the uniqueness of the quasi-stationary distribution and the ultracontractivity of the killed semi-group. By a comparison between the killing rates for the populations of each type and the one of the global population, we show that the quasi-stationary distribution can be either supported by individuals of one (the strongest one) type or supported by individuals of the two types. We thus highlight two different long time behaviors depending on the parameters of the model: either the model exhibits an intermediary time scale for which only one type (the dominant trait) is surviving, or there is a positive probability to have coexistence of the two species.",
    "title": "Competitive or weak cooperative stochastic Lotka-Volterra systems conditioned on non-extinction.",
    "abstract": "We present properties of Lotka-Volterra equations describing ecological competition among a large number of interacting species. First we extend previous stability conditions to the case of a non-homogeneous niche space, i.e. that of a carrying capacity depending on the species trait. Second, we discuss mechanisms leading to species clustering and obtain an analytical solution for a state with a lumped species distribution for a specific instance of the system. We also discuss how realistic ecological interactions may result in different types of competition coefficients.",
    "title": "Species competition: coexistence, exclusion and clustering.",
    "abstract": "According to the economic and biological aspects of renewable resources management, we propose a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with state dependent impulsive harvest. By using the Poincar\u00e9 map, some conditions for the existence and stability of positive periodic solution are obtained. Moreover, we show that there is no periodic solution with order larger than or equal to three under some conditions. Numerical results are carried out to illustrate the feasibility of our main results. The bifurcation diagrams of periodic solutions are obtained by using the numerical simulations, and it is shown that a chaotic solution is generated via a cascade of period-doubling bifurcations, which implies that the presence of pulses makes the dynamic behavior more complex.",
    "title": "The dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with state dependent impulsive harvest for predator.",
    "abstract": "To understand the evolution of dispersal, we study a Lotka-Volterra reaction-diffusion-advection model for two competing species in a heterogeneous environment. The two species are assumed to be identical except for their dispersal strategies: both species disperse by random diffusion and advection along environmental gradients, but with slightly different random dispersal or advection rates. Two new phenomena are found for one-dimensional habitats and monotone intrinsic growth rates: (i) If both species disperse only by random diffusion, i.e., no advection, it was well known that the slower diffuser always wins. We show that if both species have the same advection rate which is suitably large, the faster dispersal will evolve; (ii) If both species have the same random dispersal rate, it was known that the species with a little advection along the resource gradient always wins, provided that the other species is a pure random disperser and the habitat is convex. We show that if both species have the same random dispersal rate and both also have suitably large advection rates, the species with a little smaller advection rate always wins. Implications of these results for the habitat choices of species will be discussed. Some future directions and open problems will be addressed.",
    "title": "The evolution of conditional dispersal strategies in spatially heterogeneous habitats.",
    "abstract": "To understand the dynamics of natural species communities, a major challenge is to quantify the relationship between their assembly, stability, and underlying food web structure. To this end, two complementary aspects of food web structure can be related to community stability: sign structure, which refers to the distributions of trophic links irrespective of interaction strengths, and interaction strength structure, which refers to the distributions of interaction strengths with or without consideration of sign structure. In this paper, using data from a set of relatively well documented community food webs, I show that natural communities generally exhibit a sign structure that renders their stability sensitive to interaction strengths. Using a Lotka-Volterra type population dynamical model, I then show that in such communities, individual consumer species with high values of a measure of their total biomass acquisition rate, which I term \"weighted generality\", tend to undermine community stability. Thus consumer species' trophic modules (a species and all its resource links) should be \"selected\" through repeated immigrations and extinctions during assembly into configurations that increase the probability of stable coexistence within the constraints of the community's trophic sign structure. The presence of such constraints can be detected by the incidence and strength of certain non-random structural characteristics. These structural signatures of dynamical constraints are readily measurable, and can be used to gauge the importance of interaction-driven dynamical constraints on communities during and after assembly in natural communities.",
    "title": "Community assembly, stability and signatures of dynamical constraints on food web structure.",
    "abstract": "The present work describes a model for predicting the population dynamics of the main components (resources and consumers) of terrestrial ecosystems exposed to ionising radiation. The ecosystem is modelled by the Lotka-Volterra equations with consumer competition. Linear dose-response relationships without threshold are assumed to relate the values of the model parameters to the dose rates. The model accounts for the migration of consumers from areas characterised by different levels of radionuclide contamination. The criteria to select the model parameter values are motivated by accounting for the results of the empirical studies of past decades. Examples of predictions for long-term chronic exposure are reported and discussed.",
    "title": "Predicting the effects of ionising radiation on ecosystems by a generic model based on the Lotka-Volterra equations.",
    "abstract": "Consumer-resource systems with linear arrays of substitutable resources form the conceptual basis of much of present-day competition theory. However, most analyses of the limiting similarity of competitors have only employed consumer-resource models as a justification for using the Lotka-Volterra competition equations to represent the interaction. Unfortunately, Lotka-Volterra models cannot reflect resource exclusion via apparent competition and are poor approximations of systems with nonlogistic resource growth. We use consumer-resource models to examine the impact of exclusion of biotic resources or depletion of abiotic resources on the ability of three consumer species to coexist along a one-dimensional resource axis. For a wide range of consumer-resource models, coexistence conditions can become more restrictive with increasing niche separation of the two outer species. This occurs when the outer species are highly efficient; in this case they cause extinction or severe depletion of intermediate resources when their own niches have an intermediate level of separation. In many cases coexistence of an intermediate consumer species is prohibited when niche separation of the two outer species is moderately large, but not when it is small. Coexistence may be most likely when the intermediate species is closer to one of the two outer species, contrary to previous theory. These results suggest that competition may lead to uneven spacing of utilization curves. The implications and range of applicability of the models are discussed.",
    "title": "Coexistence and limiting similarity of consumer species competing for a linear array of resources.",
    "abstract": "Numerous biological interactions, such as interactions between T cell receptors or antibodies with antigens, interactions between enzymes and substrates, or interactions between predators and prey are often not strictly specific. In such less specific, or \"sloppy,\" systems, referred to here as degenerate systems, a given unit of a diverse resource (antigens, enzymatic substrates, prey) is at risk of being recognized and consumed by multiple consumers (lymphocytes, enzymes, predators). In this study, we model generalized degenerate consumer-resource systems of Lotka-Volterra and Verhulst types. In the degenerate systems of Lotka-Volterra, there is a continuum of types of consumer and resource based on variation of a single trait (characteristic, or preference). The consumers experience competition for a continuum of resource types. This non-local interaction system is modeled with partial differential-integral equations and shows spontaneous self-structuring of the consumer population that depends on the degree of interaction degeneracy between resource and consumer, but does not mirror the distribution of resource. We also show that the classical Verhulst (i.e. logistic) single population model can be generalized to a degenerate model, which shows qualitative behavior similar to that in the degenerate Lotka-Volterra model. These results provide better insight into the dynamics of selective systems in biology, suggesting that adaptation of degenerate repertoires is not a simple \"mirroring\" of the environment by the \"fittest\" elements of population.",
    "title": "Degeneracy-driven self-structuring dynamics in selective repertoires.",
    "abstract": "Ecologists have long been searching for mechanisms of species coexistence, particularly since G.E. Hutchinson raised the 'paradox of the plankton'. A promising approach to solve this paradox and to explain the coexistence of many species with strong niche overlap is to consider over-compensatory density regulation with its ability to generate endogenous population fluctuations. Previous work has analysed the role of over-compensation in coexistence based on analytical approaches. Using a spatially explicit time-discrete simulation model, we systematically explore the dynamics and conditions for coexistence of two species. We go beyond the analytically accessible range of models by studying the whole range of density regulation from under- to very strong over-compensation and consider the impact of spatial structure and temporal disturbances. In particular, we investigate how coexistence can emerge in different types of population growth models. We show that two strong competitors are able to coexist if at least one species exhibits over-compensation. Analysing the time series of population dynamics reveals how the differential responses to density fluctuations of the two competitors lead to coexistence: The over-compensator generates density fluctuations but is the inferior competitor at strong amplitudes of those fluctuations; the competitor, therefore, becomes frequent and dampens the over-compensator's amplitudes, but it becomes inferior under dampened fluctuations. These species interactions cause a dynamic alternation of community states with long-term persistence of both species. We show that a variety of population growth models is able to reproduce this coexistence although the particular parameter ranges differ among the models. Spatial structure influences the probability of coexistence but coexistence is maintained for a broad range of dispersal parameters. The flexibility and robustness of coexistence through over-compensation emphasize the importance of nonlinear density dependence for species interactions, and they also highlight the potential of applying more flexible models than the classical Lotka-Volterra equations in community ecology.",
    "title": "Hutchinson revisited: patterns of density regulation and the coexistence of strong competitors.",
    "abstract": "This paper introduces a threshold policy with hysteresis (TPH) for the control of one-predator one-prey models. The models studied are the Lotka-Volterra and Rosenzweig-MacArthur two species density-dependent predator-prey models and the Arditi-Ginzburg nondimensional ratio-dependent model. The proposed policy (TPH) changes the dynamics of the system in such a way that a bounded oscillation is achieved confined to a region that does not allow extinction of either species. The policy can be designed by a suitable choice of so called virtual equilibrium points in a simple and intuitive manner.",
    "title": "Realistic threshold policy with hysteresis to control predator-prey continuous dynamics.",
    "abstract": "We consider a model of frequency-dependent selection, which we refer to as the Wildcard Model. A variety of more specific models, representing quite diverse biological situations, are covered by the Wildcard Model as particular cases. Two very different particular models that are subsumed by the Wildcard Model are the game theoretically motivated two-phenotype model of Lessard [Lessard, S.,1984. Evolutionary dynamics in frequency-dependent two-phenotype models, Theor. Popul. Biol. 25, 210-234], and the model of selection on a continuous trait due to intraspecific competition of B\u00fcrger [B\u00fcrger, R., 2005. A multilocus analysis of intraspecific competition and stabilizing selection on a quantitative trait. J. Math. Biol. 50 (4), 355-396] and Schneider [Schneider, K.A., 2006. A multilocus-multiallele analysis of frequency-dependent selection induced by intraspecific competition. J. Math. Biol. 52 (4), 483-523]. Both these models have been shown in the past to have a global Lyapunov function (LF) under appropriate genetic assumptions. We show that (i) the Wildcard Model in continuous time for a single multiallelic locus, or for multiple multiallelic loci in linkage equilibrium, has a global LF, of which the Lessard and B\u00fcrger-Scheneider LF are special cases in spite of their widely different biological interpretations; (ii) the LF of the Wildcard Model can be derived from an LF previously identified for a model of density- and frequency-dependent selection due to Lotka-Volterra competition, with one locus, multiple alleles, multiple species and continuous-time dynamics [Matessi, C., Jayakar, S.D., 1981. Coevolution of species in competition: A theoretical study. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 78 (2, part2), 1081-1084]. We extend the LF with density and frequency dependence to the multilocus case with linkage-equilibrium dynamics. As a possible application of our results, the optimization principle we established can be used as a tool in the study of long-term evolution of various models subsumed by the Wildcard Model based on explicit short-term dynamics.",
    "title": "Optimization under frequency-dependent selection.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the transition between limiting similarity and coexistence of a continuum in the competitive Lotka-Volterra model. It is known that there exist exceptional cases in which, contrary to the limiting similarity expectation, all phenotypes coexist along a trait axis. Earlier studies established that the distance between surviving phenotypes is in the magnitude of the niche width 2sigma provided that the carrying capacity curve differs from the exceptional one significantly enough. In this paper we studied the outcome of competition for small perturbations of the exceptional (Gaussian) carrying capacity. We found that the average distance between the surviving phenotypes goes to zero when the perturbation vanishes. The number of coexisting species in equilibrium is proportional to the negative logarithm of the perturbation. Nevertheless, the niche width provides a good order of magnitude for the distance between survivors if the perturbations are larger than 10%. Therefore, we conclude that limiting similarity is a good framework of biological thinking despite the lack of an absolute lower bound of similarity.",
    "title": "When the exception becomes the rule: the disappearance of limiting similarity in the Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Conversion of complex phenomena in medicine, pharmaceutical and systems biology fields to a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs) and identification of parameters from experimental data and theoretical model equations can be treated as a computational engine to arrive at the best solution for chemical reactions, biochemical metabolic and intracellular pathways. Particularly, to gain insight into the pathophysiology of diabetes's metabolism in our current clinical studies, glucose kinetics and insulin secretion can be assessed by the ODE model. Parameter estimation is usually performed by minimizing a cost function which quantifies the difference between theoretical model predictions and experimental measurements. This paper explores how the numerical method and iteration program are developed to search ODE's parameters using the perturbation method, instead of the Gauss-Newton or Levenberg-Marquardt method. Several interesting applications, including Lotka-Volterra chemical reaction system, Lorenz chaos, dynamics of tetracycline hydrochloride concentration, and Bergman's Minimal Model for glucose kinetics are illustrated.",
    "title": "A perturbation-based estimate algorithm for parameters of coupled ordinary differential equations, applications from chemical reactions to metabolic dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Predicting the evolution of multispecies ecological systems is an intriguing problem. A sufficiently complex model with the necessary predicting power requires solutions that are structurally stable. Small variations of the system parameters should not qualitatively perturb its solutions. When one is interested in just asymptotic results of evolution (as time goes to infinity), then the problem has a straightforward mathematical image involving simple attractors (fixed points or limit cycles) of a dynamical system. However, for an accurate prediction of evolution, the analysis of transient solutions is critical. In this paper, in the framework of the traditional Lotka-Volterra model (generalized in some sense), we show that the transient solution representing multispecies sequential competition can be reproducible and predictable with high probability.",
    "title": "Winnerless competition principle and prediction of the transient dynamics in a Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, the nonautonomous competing two-species Lotka-Volterra models with impulsive effect are considered, where all the parameters are time-dependent and asymptotically approach the corresponding periodic functions. Under some conditions, it is shown that the semi-trivial positive solutions of the models asymptotically approach the semi-trivial positive periodic solutions of the corresponding periodic system. It is also shown that the positive solution of the models asymptotically approach the positive periodic solution of the corresponding periodic system.",
    "title": "Asymptotic behaviour of the non-autonomous competing two-species Lotka-Volterra models with impulsive effect.",
    "abstract": "We study the influence of spatially varying reaction rates on a spatial stochastic two-species Lotka-Volterra lattice model for predator-prey interactions using two-dimensional Monte Carlo simulations. The effects of this quenched randomness on population densities, transient oscillations, spatial correlations, and invasion fronts are investigated. We find that spatial variability in the predation rate results in more localized activity patches, which in turn causes a remarkable increase in the asymptotic population densities of both predators and prey and accelerated front propagation.",
    "title": "Spatial variability enhances species fitness in stochastic predator-prey interactions.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the effect of long-range diffusive mixing on stochastic processes taking place on low-dimensional catalytic supports. As a working example, the cyclic lattice Lotka-Volterra (LLV) model is used which is conservative at the mean-field level and demonstrates fractal patterns and local oscillations when realized on low-dimensional lattice supports. We show that the local oscillations are synchronized when a weak, long-range, diffusive process is added to LLV and global oscillations of limit cycle type emerge. This phenomenon is demonstrated as a nonequilibrium phase transition and takes place when the mixing-to-reaction rate p (order parameter) is above a critical point p_{c} . The value of the critical point is shown to depend on the kinetic parameters. The global oscillations in this case emerge as a result of phase synchronization between local oscillations on sublattices.",
    "title": "Synchronization of stochastic oscillations due to long-range diffusion.",
    "abstract": "Pathogens have been shown to contribute to the possibility of coexistence of competing plant species by creating ecological distinction between the coexisting species. This coexistence promoting mechanism resembles intra-specific density dependence as found in Lotka-Volterra models. However, plant species adapt in their level of resistance against pathogen infection and this adaptation has been shown to be traded-off by a reduction in growth rate. A model is developed to show that taking into account the possible adaptation of plant species to increase their resistance against pathogen infection by generalist pathogens has consequences for the coexistence of the plant species. The results show that in systems where plants adapt to the pathogen infection, coexistence becomes impossible. The implication of this finding is that plant pathogens might contribute less to the coexistence of plant species than is commonly thought.",
    "title": "The presence of generalist plant pathogens might not explain the long-term coexistence of plant species.",
    "abstract": "We study the effects of a disease affecting a predator on the dynamics of a predator-prey system. We couple an SIRS model applied to the predator population, to a Lotka-Volterra model. The SIRS model describes the spread of the disease in a predator population subdivided into susceptible, infected and removed individuals. The Lotka-Volterra model describes the predator-prey interactions. We consider two time scales, a fast one for the disease and a comparatively slow one for predator-prey interactions and for predator mortality. We use the classical \"aggregation method\" in order to obtain a reduced equivalent model. We show that there are two possible asymptotic behaviors: either the predator population dies out and the prey tends to its carrying capacity, or the predator and prey coexist. In this latter case, the predator population tends either to a \"disease-free\" or to a \"disease-endemic\" state. Moreover, the total predator density in the disease-endemic state is greater than the predator density in the \"disease-free\" equilibrium (DFE).",
    "title": "Effects of a disease affecting a predator on the dynamics of a predator-prey system.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the oscillatory reaction dynamics in a closed isothermal chemical system: the reversible Lotka-Volterra model. The second law of thermodynamics dictates that the system ultimately reaches an equilibrium. Quasistationary oscillations are analyzed while the free energy of the system serves as a global Lyapunov function of the dissipative dynamics. A natural distinction between regions near and far from equilibrium in terms of the free energy can be established. The dynamics is analogous to a nonlinear mechanical system with time-dependent increasing damping. Near equilibrium, no oscillation is possible as dictated by Onsager's reciprocal symmetry relation. We observe that while the free energy decreases in the closed system's dynamics, it does not follow the steepest descending path.",
    "title": "Oscillations and multiscale dynamics in a closed chemical reaction system: second law of thermodynamics and temporal complexity.",
    "abstract": "The population dynamics of a weakly scattering system can often be characterized by Hartree equations, and those of a living system by Lotka-Volterra (LV) equations. In principle, can the population statistics of the quantum scattering system follow those of the living system? The answer is yes, provided the interactive potentials of the Hartree equations are made equal, on a one-to-one basis, to corresponding fitness functions of the LV equations. Of course this correspondence can be achieved only if the requirements of the Hartree approximation are satisfied, including that the scatter occurs within the coherence time of the quantum system. Examples are given of Hartree systems that obey the population dynamics of required predator-prey systems.",
    "title": "Conditions for correspondence between Hartree scattering and biological growth.",
    "abstract": "Field studies were conducted at Alupe in western Kenya in 1995 and 1996 to evaluate the efficacy of crop and species mixtures for the management of sorghum anthracnose (caused by Colletotrichum sublineolum) and leaf blight (caused by Exserohilum turcicum). The progress of these diseases developing simultaneously on a susceptible sorghum cultivar planted in inter- or intra-row mixtures of varying proportions with either maize or resistant sorghum was monitored. The effects of host type and mixture patterns on disease progress were compared by parameter estimates derived from fitted Lotka-Volterra competition equations and nonlinear logistic models. Competition coefficients were not significant and their confidence intervals included zero in most cases, suggesting that interactions between C. sublineolum and E. turcicum did not occur. Mixtures of the susceptible sorghum with either the nonhost maize or the resistant sorghum delayed the time when disease is first observed and reduced the rate of disease progress and carrying capacity for both anthracnose and leaf blight, with a more pronounced effect on the latter disease. The lower efficacy of mixtures in reducing anthracnose was attributed to an aggregated spatial pattern, coupled with higher rates of progress for this disease. Intra-row mixtures were more efficient than inter-row mixtures in reducing disease development in all years. The implications of these observations for the management of sorghum diseases under small-scale farming systems are discussed.",
    "title": "Simultaneous temporal progress of sorghum anthracnose and leaf blight in crop mixtures with disparate patterns.",
    "abstract": "ABSTRACT A spatially explicit model describing saprophytic colonization of dead cyclamen leaf tissue by the plant-pathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea and the saprophytic fungal antagonist Ulocladium atrum was constructed. Both fungi explore the leaf and utilize the resources it provides. Leaf tissue is represented by a two-dimensional grid of square grid cells. Fungal competition within grid cells is modeled using Lotka-Volterra equations. Spatial expansion into neighboring grid cells is assumed proportional to the mycelial density gradient between donor and receptor cell. Established fungal biomass is immobile. Radial growth rates of B. cinerea and U. atrum in dead cyclamen leaf tissue were measured to determine parameters describing the spatial dynamics of the fungi. At temperatures from 5 to 25 degrees C, B. cinerea colonies expanded twice as rapidly as U. atrum colonies. In practical biological control, the slower colonization of space by U. atrum thus needs to be compensated by a sufficiently dense and even distribution of conidia on the leaf. Simulation results confirm the importance of spatial expansion to the outcome of the competitive interaction between B. cinerea and U. atrum at leaf scale. A sensitivity analysis further emphasized the importance of a uniform high density cover of vital U. atrum conidia on target leaves.",
    "title": "Modeling Spatial Characteristics in the Biological Control of Fungi at Leaf Scale: Competitive Substrate Colonization by Botrytis cinerea and the Saprophytic Antagonist Ulocladium atrum.",
    "abstract": "Asymmetric synthesis aims at obtaining enantio-enriched products in stereoselective reactions under a chiral influence. We demonstrate both mathematically and numerically that, even under nominally achiral conditions, fully homochiral steady states can be obtained in open reactive systems by spontaneous mirror-symmetry breaking in the homogenous solution phase when the autocatalytic reaction network is closed in the form of coherently coupled antagonistic reversible reaction cycles which, paradoxically, allow for complete recycling of the reactant. We show that the fully reversible Frank mechanism for spontaneous mirror-symmetry breaking is closely related to the Lotka-Volterra system, which models predator-prey relations in ecosystems. Amplification of total enantiomeric excess and the principle of microscopic reversibility are not in conflict for all conceivable reactions. A viable and widely applicable reaction protocol is introduced and discussed, and it permits the theoretical implications to be applied to practical laboratory examples. Implications for the possible origin of biological homochirality on early earth are discussed.",
    "title": "Spontaneous emergence of homochirality via coherently coupled antagonistic and reversible reaction cycles.",
    "abstract": "A generalized Lotka-Volterra model for a pair of interacting populations of predators and prey is studied. The model accounts for the prey's interspecies competition and therefore is asymptotically stable, whereas its oscillatory behavior is induced by temporal variations in environmental conditions simulated by those in the prey's reproduction rate. Two models of the variations are considered, each of them combining randomness with \"hidden\" periodicity. The stationary joint probability density function (PDF) of the number of predators and prey is calculated numerically by the path integration (PI) method based on the use of characteristic functions and the fast Fourier transform. The numerical results match those for the asymptotic case of white-noise variations for which an analytical solution is available. Several examples are studied, with calculations of important characteristics of oscillations, for example the expected rate of up-crossings given the level of the predator number. The calculated PDFs may be of predominantly random (unimodal) or predominantly periodic nature (bimodal). Thus, the PI method has been demonstrated to be a powerful tool for studies of the dynamics of predator-prey pairs. The method captures the random oscillations as observed in nature, taking into account potential periodicity in the environmental conditions.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra systems in environments with randomly disordered temporal periodicity.",
    "abstract": "Much previous ecological and evolutionary theory about exploitative competition for a continuous spectrum of resources has used the Lotka-Volterra model with competition coefficients given by a Gaussian function of niche separation. Using explicit consumer-resource models, we show that the Lotka-Volterra model and the assumption of a Gaussian competition-similarity relationship both fail to reflect the impact of strong resource depletion, which typically reduces the influence of the most heavily used resources on the competitive interaction. Taking proper account of resource depletion reveals that strong exploitative competition between efficient consumers is usually a highly nonlinear interaction, implying that a single measure is no longer sufficient to characterize the process. The nonlinearity usually entails weak coupling of competing species when their abundances are high and equal. Rare invaders are likely to have effects on abundant residents much larger than those of the resident on the invader. Asymmetrical utilization curves often produce asymmetrical competition coefficients. Competition coefficients are typically non-Gaussian and are often nonmonotonic functions of niche separation. Utilization curve shape and resource growth functions can have major effects on competition-similarity relationships. A variety of previous theoretical findings need to be reassessed in light of these results.",
    "title": "Competition-similarity relationships and the nonlinearity of competitive effects in consumer-resource systems.",
    "abstract": "Aedes albopictus (Skuse) and Aedes japonicus (Theobald) are two of the most recent and widespread invasive mosquito species to have become established in the United States. The two species co-occur in water-filled artificial containers, where crowding and limiting resources are likely to promote inter- or intraspecific larval competition. The performance of northern Virginia populations of Ae. japonicus and Ae. albopictus competing as larvae under field conditions was evaluated. Per capita rates of population increase for each species were estimated, and the effects of species composition and larval density were determined. In water-containing cups provided with oak leaves, Ae. albopictus larvae exhibited a competitive advantage over Ae. japonicus as a consequence of higher survivorship, shorter developmental time, and a significantly higher estimated population growth rate under conditions of interspecific competition. Intraspecific competition constrained population performance of Ae. albopictus significantly more than competition with Ae. japonicus. In the context of the Lotka-Volterra model of competition, these findings suggest competitive exclusion of Ae. japonicus in those habitats where this species co-occurs with Ae. albopictus.",
    "title": "Interspecific larval competition between Aedes albopictus and Aedes japonicus (Diptera: Culicidae) in northern Virginia.",
    "abstract": "We present a theoretical study of habitat selection strategies for two species that compete in an environment consisting of two different habitats. Our fitness functions are derived from the Lotka-Volterra competition equations, and we assume that individuals settle in the habitat in which their fitness is maximized. We derive an ideal free distribution across the habitats for both species. Our model provides analytical and graphical descriptions of individual habitat selection behavior, isolegs (the boundary lines separating regions where qualitatively different habitat preferences are predicted), and spatial population distributions. Our analysis reveals complex isolegs, several novel patterns of habitat distribution, and even situations where spatial strategies, as well as the relative abundances of coexisting species, exhibit only local stability. Hence, distributions of competing species may be determined not solely by their respective densities but also by the order of colonization. This happens, however, only for extreme levels of interspecific competition. In the situation where one competitor species is dominant over the other, our model predicts isolegs that qualitatively agree with observed behavioral patterns. However, our model predicts a greater variety of possible situations than has been previously described. Finally, we analyze the influence of habitat selection behavior on species isoclines and verify that increasing interspecific competition leads to habitat segregation.",
    "title": "Habitat selection by two competing species in a two-habitat environment.",
    "abstract": "Habitat heterogeneity plays a key role in the dynamics and structures of communities. In this article, a two-species metapopulation model that includes local competitive dynamics is analyzed to study the population dynamics of two competing species in spatially structured habitats. When local stochastic extinction can be ignored, there are, as in Lotka-Volterra equations, four outcomes of interspecific competition in this model. The outcomes of competition depend on the competitive intensity between the competing pairs. An inferior competitor and a superior competitor, or two strongly competing species, can never stably coexist, whereas two weak competitors (even if they are very similar species) may coexist over the long term in such environments. Local stochastic extinction may greatly affect the outcomes of interspecific competition. Two competing species can or cannot stably coexist depending not only on the competitive intensity between the competing pairs but also on their precompetitive distributions. Two weak competitors that have similar precompetitive distributions can always regionally coexist. Two strongly competing species that competitively exclude each other in more stable habitats may be able to stably coexist in highly heterogenous environments if they have similar precompetitive distributions. There is also a chance for an inferior competitor to coexist regionally or even to exclude a superior competitor when the superior competitor has a narrow precompetitive distribution and the inferior competitor has a wide precompetitive distribution.",
    "title": "Competition and coexistence in regional habitats.",
    "abstract": "In well-mixed populations of predators and prey, natural selection favors predators with high rates of prey consumption and population growth. When spatial structure prevents the populations from being well mixed, such predators may have a selective disadvantage because they do not make full use of the prey's growth capacity and hence produce fewer propagules. The best strategy then depends on the degree to which predators can monopolize the exploitation of local prey populations, which in turn depends on the spatial structure, the number of migrants, and, in particular, the stochastic nature of the colonization process. To analyze the evolutionary dynamics of predators in a spatially structured predator-prey system, we performed simulations with a metapopulation model that has explicit local dynamics of nonpersistent populations, keeps track of the number of emigrants entering the migration pool, assumes individuals within local populations as well as within the migration pool to be well mixed, and takes stochastic colonization into account. We investigated which of the predator's exploitation strategies are evolutionarily stable and whether these strategies minimize the overall density of prey, as is the case in Lotka-Volterra-type models of competitive exclusion. This was analyzed by pairwise invasibility plots based on short-term simulations and tested by long-term simulation experiments of competition between resident and mutant predator-types that differed in one of the following parameters: the prey-to-predator conversion efficiency, the per capita prey consumption rate, or the per capita emigration rate from local populations. In addition, we asked which of these three strategies are most likely to evolve. Our simulations showed that under selection for conversion efficiency the predator-prey system always goes globally extinct yet persists under selection for consumption or emigration rates and that the evolutionarily stable (ES) exploitation strategies do not maximize local population growth rates. The most successful exploitation strategy minimizes the overall density of prey but does not make it settle exactly at the minimum. The system did not settle at the point where the mean time to co-invasion (i.e., immigration of a second predator in a local prey population) equals the mean local interaction time (an idea borne out from studies on host exploitation strategies in host-pathogen systems) but rather where the mean time to co-invasion was larger. The ES exploitation strategies represent more prudent strategies than the ones that minimize prey density. Finally, we show that-compared to consumption-emigration is a more likely target for selection to achieve prudent exploitation and that prudent exploitation strategies can evolve only provided the prey-to-predator conversion efficiency is subject to constraints.",
    "title": "Evolutionary dynamics of prey exploitation in a metapopulation of predators.",
    "abstract": "Stochastic spatial models are becoming an increasingly popular tool for understanding ecological and epidemiological problems. However, due to the complexities inherent in such models, it has been difficult to obtain any analytical insights. Here, we consider individual-based, stochastic models of both the continuous-time Lotka-Volterra system and the discrete-time Nicholson-Bailey model. The stability of these two stochastic models of natural enemies is assessed by constructing moment equations. The inclusion of these moments, which mimic the effects of spatial aggregation, can produce either stabilizing or destabilizing influences on the population dynamics. Throughout, the theoretical results are compared to numerical models for the full distribution of populations, as well as stochastic simulations.",
    "title": "Deterministic limits to stochastic spatial models of natural enemies.",
    "abstract": "Understanding the impact of habitat edges provides a key to deciphering how community dynamics change as functions of habitat structure and spatial scale. Motivated by studies of predation on bird nests in forest fragments and other cases of \"cross-boundary subsidies,\" we present results from a partial differential equation model in which a patch-resident prey species suffers incidental mortality from a generalist predator species residing in the surrounding matrix habitat. We demonstrate that predator intrusions have the potential to induce critical patch size effects for the prey species, even when the prey's dynamics would otherwise preclude such effects. We also demonstrate that the existence of critical patch size effects depends on the functional response of the predator, with Lotka-Volterra and Type II functional responses generating the effect (but not Type III). We conclude by discussing how predator-induced critical patch size effects can influence opportunities for regionwide persistence of the prey by altering the fraction and spatial distribution of meaningful patches within a metapopulation.",
    "title": "How predator incursions affect critical patch size: the role of the functional response.",
    "abstract": "A model of the joint dynamics of change in population size N and evolution in a quantitative trait z, as a result of a general form of density dependence, local stabilizing selection, and immigration of individuals deviating from the local optimum, is analyzed. For weak selection and migration, a reduction in total equilibrium population size below the initial level without immigration, K, is shown to occur if the immigrants deviates more than square root of 8 = 2.83 genetic standard deviations from the optimum and if the rate of migration m is sufficiently large relative to the strength of stabilizing selection s. For the Lotka-Volterra form of density dependence, two additional equilibria are shown to exist below K, provided that the strength of selection is large relative to the strength of density dependence. Reintroduction of an initially extinct population is possible if the immigrants are not too maladapted and if the genetic variance is sufficiently large. For a simplified version of the model corresponding to competition between similar species or different haplotypes, the equilibrium population size is always exactly at K if m < Ksz1(2) and is above K otherwise, which shows the importance of including recombination in the model.",
    "title": "Effects of releasing maladapted individuals: a demographic-evolutionary model.",
    "abstract": "Simple models, based on Lotka-Volterra types of interactions between predator and prey, predict that enrichment will have a destabilizing effect on populations and that equilibrium population densities will change at the top trophic level and every second level below. We experimentally tested these predictions in three aquatic food web configurations subjected to either high or low nutrient additions. The results were structured by viewing the systems as either food chains or webs and showed that trophic level biomass increased with enrichment, which contradicts food chain theory. However, within each trophic level, food web configuration affected the extent to which different functional groups responded to enrichment. By dividing trophic levels into functional groups, based on vulnerability to consumption, we were able to identify significant effects that were obscured when systems were viewed as food chains. The results support the prediction that invulnerable prey may stabilize trophic-level dynamics by replacing other, more vulnerable prey. Furthermore, the vulnerable prey, such as Daphnia and edible algae, responded as predicted by the paradox of enrichment hypothesis; that is, variability in population density increased with enrichment. Hence, by describing ecosystems as a matrix of food web interactions, and by recognizing the interplay between interspecific competition and predation, a more complete description of the ecosystem function was obtained compared to when species were placed into distinct trophic levels.",
    "title": "Effects of enrichment on simple aquatic food webs.",
    "abstract": "Sigmoid functional responses may arise from a variety of mechanisms, one of which is switching to alternative food sources. It has long been known that sigmoid (Holling's Type III) functional responses may stabilize an otherwise unstable equilibrium of prey and predators in Lotka-Volterra models. This poses the question of under what conditions such switching-mediated stability is likely to occur. A more complete understanding of the effect of predator switching would therefore require the analysis of one-predator/two-prey models, but these are difficult to analyze. We studied a model based on the simplifying assumption that the alternative food source has a fixed density. A well-known result from optimal foraging theory is that when prey density drops below a threshold density, optimally foraging predators will switch to alternative food, either by including the alternative food in their diet (in a fine-grained environment) or by moving to the alternative food source (in a coarse-grained environment). Analyzing the population dynamical consequences of such stepwise switches, we found that equilibria will not be stable at all. For suboptimal predators, a more gradual change will occur, resulting in stable equilibria for a limited range of alternative food types. This range is notably narrow in a fine-grained environment. Yet, even if switching to alternative food does not stabilize the equilibrium, it may prevent unbounded oscillations and thus promote persistence. These dynamics can well be understood from the occurrence of an abrupt (or at least steep) change in the prey isocline. Whereas local stability is favored only by specific types of alternative food, persistence of prey and predators is promoted by a much wider range of food types.",
    "title": "Alternative food, switching predators, and the persistence of predator-prey systems.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, a two-species Lotka-Volterra cooperative delay system is considered, and the relationships between the delays and the permanence are obtained. Some sufficient conditions for the permanence under the assumption of smallness of the delays are obtained. Two examples are given to illustrate the theorems.",
    "title": "Permanence for two-species Lotka-Volterra cooperative systems with delays.",
    "abstract": "Most ecological models assume that predator and prey populations interact solely through consumption: predators reduce prey densities by killing and consuming individual prey. However, predators can also reduce prey densities by forcing prey to adopt costly defensive strategies.\nWe build on a simple Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model to provide a heuristic tool for distinguishing between the demographic effects of consumption (consumptive effects) and of anti-predator defenses (nonconsumptive effects), and for distinguishing among the multiple mechanisms by which anti-predator defenses might reduce prey population growth rates. We illustrate these alternative pathways for nonconsumptive effects with selected empirical examples, and use a meta-analysis of published literature to estimate the mean effect size of each pathway. Overall, predation risk tends to have a much larger impact on prey foraging behavior than measures of growth, survivorship, or fecundity.\nWhile our model provides a concise framework for understanding the many potential NCE pathways and their relationships to each other, our results confirm empirical research showing that prey are able to partially compensate for changes in energy income, mitigating the fitness effects of defensive changes in time budgets. Distinguishing the many facets of nonconsumptive effects raises some novel questions, and will help guide both empirical and theoretical studies of how predation risk affects prey dynamics.",
    "title": "The many faces of fear: comparing the pathways and impacts of nonconsumptive predator effects on prey populations.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, we consider permanence of Lotka-Volterra equations. We investigate the sign structure of the interaction matrix that guarantees the permanence of a Lotka-Volterra equation whenever it has a positive equilibrium point. An interaction matrix with this property is said to be qualitatively permanent. Our results provide both necessary and sufficient conditions for qualitative permanence.",
    "title": "Qualitative permanence of Lotka-Volterra equations.",
    "abstract": "A stochastic Lotka-Volterra model, a so-called pulse-type model, for the interaction between two species and their random natural environment is investigated. The effect of a random environment is modeled as random pulse trains in the birth rate of the prey and the death rate of the predator. The generalized cell mapping method is applied to calculate the probability distributions of the species populations at a state of statistical quasistationarity. The time evolution of the population densities is studied, and the probability of the near extinction time, from an initial state to a critical state, is obtained. The effects on the ecosystem behaviors of the prey self-competition term and of the pulse mean arrival rate are also discussed. Our results indicate that the proposed pulse-type model shows obviously distinguishable characteristics from a Gaussian-type model, and may confer a significant advantage for modeling the prey-predator system under discrete environmental fluctuations.",
    "title": "Stochastic analysis of a pulse-type prey-predator model.",
    "abstract": "Noise and time delay act simultaneously on real ecological systems. The Lotka-Volterra model of symmetric two-species competition with noise and time delay was investigated in this paper. By means of stochastic simulation, we find that (i) the time delay induces the densities of the two species to periodically oscillate synchronously; (ii) the stationary probability distribution function of the two-species densities exhibits a transition from multiple to single stability as the delay time increases; (iii) the characteristic correlation time for the sum of the two-species densities squared exhibits a nonmonotonic behavior as a function of delay time. Our results have the implication that the combination of noise and time delay could provide an efficient tool for understanding real ecological systems.",
    "title": "Effects of time delay on symmetric two-species competition subject to noise.",
    "abstract": "Markov models are widely used to describe the dynamics of communities of sessile organisms, because they are easily fitted to field data and provide a rich set of analytical tools. In typical ecological applications, at any point in time, each point in space is in one of a finite set of states (e.g., species, empty space). The models aim to describe the probabilities of transitions between states. In most Markov models for communities, these transition probabilities are assumed to be independent of state abundances. This assumption is often suspected to be false and is rarely justified explicitly. Here, we start with simple assumptions about the interactions among sessile organisms and derive a model in which transition probabilities depend on the abundance of destination states. This model is formulated in continuous time and is equivalent to a Lotka-Volterra competition model. We fit this model and a variety of alternatives in which transition probabilities do not depend on state abundances to a long-term coral reef data set. The Lotka-Volterra model describes the data much better than all models we consider other than a saturated model (a model with a separate parameter for each transition at each time interval, which by definition fits the data perfectly). Our approach provides a basis for further development of stochastic models of sessile communities, and many of the methods we use are relevant to other types of community. We discuss possible extensions to spatially explicit models.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra competition models for sessile organisms.",
    "abstract": "Different biological dynamics are often described by different mathematical equations. On the other hand, some mathematical models describe many biological dynamics universally. Here, we focus on three biological dynamics: the Lotka-Volterra equation, the Hopfield neural networks, and the replicator equation. We describe these three dynamical models using a single optimization framework, which is constructed with employing the Riemannian geometry. Then, we show that the optimization structures of these dynamics are identical, and the differences among the three dynamics are only in the constraints of the optimization. From this perspective, we discuss the unified view for biological dynamics. We also discuss the plausible categorizations, the fundamental nature, and the efficient modeling of the biological dynamics, which arise from the optimization perspective of the dynamical systems.",
    "title": "An optimization framework of biological dynamical systems.",
    "abstract": "The complexity-stability relation is a central issue in ecology. In this paper, we show how the sampling method most often used to parameterize an ecological community, can affect the conclusions about whether or not complexity promotes stability and we suggest a sampling algorithm that overcomes the problem. We also illustrate the importance of treating feasibility separately from stability when constructing model communities. Using model Lotka-Volterra competition communities we found that probability of feasibility decreases with increasing interaction strength and number of species in the community. However, for feasible systems we found that local stability probability and resilience do not significantly differ between communities with few or many species, in contrast with earlier studies that, did not account for feasibility and concluded that species-poor communities had higher probability of being locally stable than species-rich communities.",
    "title": "Complexity does not affect stability in feasible model communities.",
    "abstract": "In many consumer-resource systems the consumer population has synchronized reproduction at regular intervals (e.g., years) but consumes the resource and dies continuously, while the resource population grows continuously or has overlapping generations that are short relative to the time between consumer reproductive events. Such systems require \"semi-discrete\" models that have both discrete and continuous components. This paper defines and analyzes a canonical, semi-discrete model for a widespread class of consumer-resource interactions in which the consumer is a discrete breeder and the resource reproduction can be described continuously. The model is the analog of the Nicholson-Bailey and Lotka-Volterra models for discrete and continuous systems, respectively. It thereby develops the basis for understanding more realistic, and hence more complex, semi-discrete models. The model can display stable equilibria, consumer-resource cycles, and single-species-like overcompensation cycles. Cycles are induced by high maximum fecundity in the consumer. If the resource grows rapidly and the consumer has high maximum fecundity, the model reduces to a single-species discrete-time model of the consumer, which can exhibit overcompensation cycles. By contrast, such cycles in discrete consumer-resource models typically occur only in the resource once the consumer is extinct. Also unlike a common class of discrete models that do not display consumer-resource cycles with periods below four years, semi-discrete models can exhibit consumer-resource cycles with periods as short as two years.",
    "title": "Between discrete and continuous: consumer-resource dynamics with synchronized reproduction.",
    "abstract": "To study evolution of conditional dispersal, a Lotka-Volterra reaction-diffusion-advection model for two competing species in a heterogeneous environment is proposed and investigated. The two species are assumed to be identical except their dispersal strategies: both species disperse by random diffusion and advection along environmental gradients, but one species has stronger biased movement (i.e., advection along the environmental gradients) than the other one. It is shown that at least two scenarios can occur: if only one species has a strong tendency to move upward the environmental gradients, the two species can coexist since one species mainly pursues resources at places of locally most favorable environments while the other relies on resources from other parts of the habitat; if both species have such strong biased movements, it can lead to overcrowding of the whole population at places of locally most favorable environments, which causes the extinction of the species with stronger biased movement. These results provide a new mechanism for the coexistence of competing species, and they also imply that selection is against excessive advection along environmental gradients, and an intermediate biased movement rate may evolve.",
    "title": "Evolution of conditional dispersal: a reaction-diffusion-advection model.",
    "abstract": "Darwinian theory, like classic physics, is an incomplete oversimplification of the most complex aspects of the reality. According to the complementarity principle of Taoism and quantum physics, a Lotka-Volterra oscillation between catabolic-entropic and anabolic-syntropic processes might generate the emergence of collective behaviours and fractal structures near the critical points in many physical and biological systems. The proposed mechanism, named metabolic hypercycle, explains many evolutionary dynamics with two alternate and complementary phases at the levels of molecules, cells, organisms, and populations. In the catabolic-entropic phase, the genetic apparatus and the Darwinian processes allow the reproduction and conservation of biological systems. In the anabolic-syntropic phase, the epigenetic apparatus and the Lamarckian anti-Darwinian processes produce innovative adaptations to variable environment. Many experimental evidences, such as for example the distribution of retroelements and DNA mutations in complex genomes, suggest the existence of mechanisms based on epigenetic signals, reverse transcription, and micro-recombination, that promote DNA changes and horizontal transfer of genetic information between organisms and cells, in particular between somatic and germline cells. In complex animals, the acquired immunity regulates the selective proliferation of the cells with adaptive mutations during the physiological responses to stresses. The same immunotrophic process allows the maternal selection of embryos with adaptive mutations. Moreover, the fetal-maternal incompatibility counteracts the negative aspects of Darwinian natural selection and maintains the metabolic biodiversity of animal populations. In conclusion, the increased knowledge of relationships among metabolism, epigenetic systems, genome plasticity, and acquired immunity, supports the idea that these processes could provide a form of Lamarckian adaptive evolution in response to environmental stresses. A better understanding of the biology will increase our ability to design medical and biotechnological applications. Some of these innovative applications are discussed in the paper.",
    "title": "The Yin and Yang of anti-Darwinian epigenetics and Darwinian genetics.",
    "abstract": "predators can have pronounced effects on na\u00efve prey species; thus, predator control is often essential for conservation of threatened native species. Complete eradication of the predator, although desirable, may be elusive in budget-limited situations, whereas predator suppression is more feasible and may still achieve conservation goals. We used a stochastic predator-prey model based on a Lotka-Volterra system to investigate the cost-effectiveness of predator control to achieve prey conservation. We compared five control strategies: immediate eradication, removal of a constant number of predators (fixed-number control), removal of a constant proportion of predators (fixed-rate control), removal of predators that exceed a predetermined threshold (upper-trigger harvest), and removal of predators whenever their population falls below a lower predetermined threshold (lower-trigger harvest). We looked at the performance of these strategies when managers could always remove the full number of predators targeted by each strategy, subject to budget availability. Under this assumption immediate eradication reduced the threat to the prey population the most. We then examined the effect of reduced management success in meeting removal targets, assuming removal is more difficult at low predator densities. In this case there was a pronounced reduction in performance of the immediate eradication, fixed-number, and lower-trigger strategies. Although immediate eradication still yielded the highest expected minimum prey population size, upper-trigger harvest yielded the lowest probability of prey extinction and the greatest return on investment (as measured by improvement in expected minimum population size per amount spent). Upper-trigger harvest was relatively successful because it operated when predator density was highest, which is when predator removal targets can be more easily met and the effect of predators on the prey is most damaging. This suggests that controlling predators only when they are most abundant is the \"best\" strategy when financial resources are limited and eradication is unlikely.",
    "title": "Cost-effective suppression and eradication of invasive predators.",
    "abstract": "This correspondence proves a convergence result for the Lotka-Volterra dynamical systems with symmetric interaction parameters between different species. These can be considered as a subclass of the competitive neural networks introduced by Cohen and Grossberg in 1983. The theorem guarantees that each forward trajectory has finite length and converges toward a single equilibrium point, even for those parameters for which there are infinitely many nonisolated equilibrium points. The convergence result in this correspondence, which is proved by means of a new method based on the \u0141ojasiewicz inequality for gradient systems of analytic functions, is stronger than the previous result established by Cohen and Grossberg via LaSalle's invariance principle, which requires, for convergence, the additional assumption that the equilibrium points be isolated.",
    "title": "Convergence of a subclass of Cohen-Grossberg neural networks via the \u0141ojasiewicz inequality.",
    "abstract": "Nonlinear oscillatory systems, playing a major role in biology, do not exhibit harmonic oscillations. Therefore, one might assume that the average value of any of their oscillating variables is unequal to the steady-state value. For a number of mathematical models of calcium oscillations (e.g. the Somogyi-Stucki model and several models developed by Goldbeter and co-workers), the average value of the cytosolic calcium concentration (not, however, of the concentration in the intracellular store) does equal its value at the corresponding unstable steady state at the same parameter values. The average value for parameter values in the unstable region is even equal to the level at the stable steady state for other parameter values, which allow stability. This holds for all parameters except those involved in the net flux across the cell membrane. We compare these properties with a similar property of the Higgins-Selkov model of glycolytic oscillations and two-dimensional Lotka-Volterra equations. Here, we show that this equality property is critically dependent on the following conditions: There must exist a net flux across the model boundaries that is linearly dependent on the concentration variable for which the equality property holds plus an additive constant, while being independent of all others. A number of models satisfy these conditions or can be transformed such that they do so. We discuss our results in view of the question which advantages oscillations may have in biology. For example, the implications of the findings for the decoding of calcium oscillations are outlined. Moreover, we elucidate interrelations with metabolic control analysis.",
    "title": "Equality of average and steady-state levels in some nonlinear models of biological oscillations.",
    "abstract": "The problem of density dependence appears in all approaches to the modelling of population dynamics. It is pertinent to classic models (i.e., Lotka-Volterra's), and also population genetics and game theoretical models related to the replicator dynamics. There is no density dependence in the classic formulation of replicator dynamics, which means that population size may grow to infinity. Therefore the question arises: How is unlimited population growth suppressed in frequency-dependent models? Two categories of solutions can be found in the literature. In the first, replicator dynamics is independent of background fitness. In the second type of solution, a multiplicative suppression coefficient is used, as in a logistic equation. Both approaches have disadvantages. The first one is incompatible with the methods of life history theory and basic probabilistic intuitions. The logistic type of suppression of per capita growth rate stops trajectories of selection when population size reaches the maximal value (carrying capacity); hence this method does not satisfy selective neutrality. To overcome these difficulties, we must explicitly consider turn-over of individuals dependent on mortality rate. This new approach leads to two interesting predictions. First, the equilibrium value of population size is lower than carrying capacity and depends on the mortality rate. Second, although the phase portrait of selection trajectories is the same as in density-independent replicator dynamics, pace of selection slows down when population size approaches equilibrium, and then remains constant and dependent on the rate of turn-over of individuals.",
    "title": "How can we model selectively neutral density dependence in evolutionary games.",
    "abstract": "We study pairs of identical coupled chaotic oscillators. In particular, we have used Roessler (in the funnel and no funnel regimes), Lorenz, and four-dimensional chaotic Lotka-Volterra models. In all four of these cases, a pair of identical oscillators is asymmetrically coupled. The main result of the numerical simulations is that in all cases, specific values of coupling strength and asymmetry exist that render the two oscillators periodic and synchronized. The values of the coupling strength for which this phenomenon occurs is well below the previously known value for complete synchronization. We have found that this behavior exists for all the chaotic oscillators that we have used in the analysis. We postulate that this behavior is presumably generic to all chaotic oscillators. In order to complete the study, we have tested the robustness of this phenomenon of chaos suppression versus the addition of some Gaussian noise. We found that chaos suppression is robust for the addition of finite noise level. Finally, we propose some extension to this research.",
    "title": "Chaos suppression through asymmetric coupling.",
    "abstract": "Trade-off shapes are crucial to evolutionary outcomes. However, due to different ecological feedbacks their implications may depend not only on the trade-off being considered but also the ecological scenario. Here, we apply a novel geometric technique, trade-off and invasion plots (TIPs), to examine in detail how the shape of trade-off relationships affect evolutionary outcomes under a range of classic ecological scenarios including Lotka-Volterra type and host-parasite interactions. We choose models of increasing complexity in order to gain an insight into the features of ecological systems that determine the evolutionary outcomes. In particular we focus on when evolutionary attractors, repellors and branching points occur and how this depends on whether the costs are accelerating (benefits become 'increasingly' costly), decelerating (benefits become 'decreasingly' costly) or constant. In all cases strongly accelerating costs lead to attractors while strongly decelerating ones lead to repellors, but with weaker relationships, this no longer holds. For some systems weakly accelerating costs may lead to repellors and decelerating costs may lead to attractors. In many scenarios it is weakly decelerating costs that lead to branching points, but weakly accelerating and linear costs may also lead to disruptive selection in particular ecological scenarios. Using our models we suggest a classification of ecological interactions, based on three distinct criteria, that can produce one of four fundamental TIPs which allow for different evolutionary behaviour. This provides a baseline theory which may inform the prediction of evolutionary outcomes in similar yet unexplored ecological scenarios. In addition we discuss the implications of our results to a number of specific life-history trade-offs in the classic ecological scenarios represented by our models.",
    "title": "The influence of trade-off shape on evolutionary behaviour in classical ecological scenarios.",
    "abstract": "The interactions that occur during the ripening of smear cheeses are not well understood. Yeast-yeast interactions and yeast-bacterium interactions were investigated within a microbial community composed of three yeasts and six bacteria found in cheese. The growth dynamics of this community was precisely described during the ripening of a model cheese, and the Lotka-Volterra model was used to evaluate species interactions. Subsequently, the effects on ecosystem functioning of yeast omissions in the microbial community were evaluated. It was found both in the Lotka-Volterra model and in the omission study that negative interactions occurred between yeasts. Yarrowia lipolytica inhibited mycelial expansion of Geotrichum candidum, whereas Y. lipolytica and G. candidum inhibited Debaryomyces hansenii cell viability during the stationary phase. However, the mechanisms involved in these interactions remain unclear. It was also shown that yeast-bacterium interactions played a significant role in the establishment of this multispecies ecosystem on the cheese surface. Yeasts were key species in bacterial development, but their influences on the bacteria differed. It appeared that the growth of Arthrobacter arilaitensis or Hafnia alvei relied less on a specific yeast function because these species dominated the bacterial flora, regardless of which yeasts were present in the ecosystem. For other bacteria, such as Leucobacter sp. or Brevibacterium aurantiacum, growth relied on a specific yeast, i.e., G. candidum. Furthermore, B. aurantiacum, Corynebacterium casei, and Staphylococcus xylosus showed reduced colonization capacities in comparison with the other bacteria in this model cheese. Bacterium-bacterium interactions could not be clearly identified.",
    "title": "Microbial interactions within a cheese microbial community.",
    "abstract": "We develop a systematic toolbox for analyzing the adaptive dynamics of multidimensional traits in physiologically structured population models with point equilibria (sensu Dieckmann et al. in Theor. Popul. Biol. 63:309-338, 2003). Firstly, we show how the canonical equation of adaptive dynamics (Dieckmann and Law in J. Math. Biol. 34:579-612, 1996), an approximation for the rate of evolutionary change in characters under directional selection, can be extended so as to apply to general physiologically structured population models with multiple birth states. Secondly, we show that the invasion fitness function (up to and including second order terms, in the distances of the trait vectors to the singularity) for a community of N coexisting types near an evolutionarily singular point has a rational form, which is model-independent in the following sense: the form depends on the strategies of the residents and the invader, and on the second order partial derivatives of the one-resident fitness function at the singular point. This normal form holds for Lotka-Volterra models as well as for physiologically structured population models with multiple birth states, in discrete as well as continuous time and can thus be considered universal for the evolutionary dynamics in the neighbourhood of singular points. Only in the case of one-dimensional trait spaces or when N = 1 can the normal form be reduced to a Taylor polynomial. Lastly we show, in the form of a stylized recipe, how these results can be combined into a systematic approach for the analysis of the (large) class of evolutionary models that satisfy the above restrictions.",
    "title": "Adaptive dynamics for physiologically structured population models.",
    "abstract": "This article studies the effects of adaptive changes in predator and/or prey activities on the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey population dynamics. The model assumes the classical foraging-predation risk trade-offs: increased activity increases population growth rate, but it also increases mortality rate. The model considers three scenarios: prey only are adaptive, predators only are adaptive, and both species are adaptive. Under all these scenarios, the neutral stability of the classical Lotka-Volterra model is partially lost because the amplitude of maximum oscillation in species numbers is bounded, and the bound is independent of the initial population numbers. Moreover, if both prey and predators behave adaptively, the neutral stability can be completely lost, and a globally stable equilibrium would appear. This is because prey and/or predator switching leads to a piecewise constant prey (predator) isocline with a vertical (horizontal) part that limits the amplitude of oscillations in prey and predator numbers, exactly as suggested by Rosenzweig and MacArthur in their seminal work on graphical stability analysis of predator-prey systems. Prey and predator activities in a long-term run are calculated explicitly. This article shows that predictions based on short-term behavioral experiments may not correspond to long-term predictions when population dynamics are considered.",
    "title": "The Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with foraging-predation risk trade-offs.",
    "abstract": "Classical predator-prey models, such as Lotka-Volterra, track the abundance of prey, but ignore its quality. Yet, in the past decade, some new and occasionally counterintuitive effects of prey quality on food web dynamics emerged from both experiments and mathematical modeling. The underpinning of this work is the theory of ecological stoichiometry that is centered on the fact that each organism is a mixture of multiple chemical elements such as carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P). The ratios of these elements can vary within and among species, providing simple ways to represent prey quality as its C:N or C:P ratios. When these ratios modeled to vary, as they frequently do in nature, seemingly paradoxical results can arise such as the extinction of a predator that has an abundant and accessible prey. Here, for the first time, we show analytically that the reduction in prey quality can give rise to chaotic oscillations. In particular, when competing predators differ in their sensitivity to prey quality then all species can coexist via chaotic fluctuations. The chaos generating mechanism is based on the existence of a junction-fold point on the nullcline surfaces of the species. Conditions on parameters are found for such a point, and the singular perturbation method and the kneading sequence analysis are used to demonstrate the existence of a period-doubling cascade to chaos as a result of the point.",
    "title": "Competitive coexistence in stoichiometric chaos.",
    "abstract": "We introduce a sequential rewriting strategy for P systems based on Gillespie's stochastic simulation algorithm, and show that the resulting formalism of stochastic P systems makes it possible to simulate biochemical processes in dynamically changing, nested compartments. Stochastic P systems have been implemented using the spatially explicit programming language MGS. Implementation examples include models of the Lotka-Volterra auto-catalytic system, and the life cycle of the Semliki Forest virus.",
    "title": "Stochastic P systems and the simulation of biochemical processes with dynamic compartments.",
    "abstract": "P systems are used to compute predator-prey dynamics expressed in the traditional formulation by Lotka and Volterra. By governing the action of the transition rules in such systems using the regulatory features of the metabolic algorithm we come up with simulations of the Lotka-Volterra equations, whose robustness is comparable to that obtained using Runge-Kutta schemes and Gillespie's Stochastic Simulation Algorithm. Besides their reliability, the results obtained using the metabolic algorithm on top of P systems have a clear biochemical interpretation concerning the role, of reactants or promoters, of the species involved.",
    "title": "Predator-prey dynamics in P systems ruled by metabolic algorithm.",
    "abstract": "We study the properties of general Lotka-Volterra models with competitive interactions. The intensity of the competition depends on the position of species in an abstract niche space through an interaction kernel. We show analytically and numerically that the properties of these models change dramatically when the Fourier transform of this kernel is not positive definite, due to a pattern-forming instability. We estimate properties of the species distributions, such as the steady number of species and their spacings, for different types of interactions, including stretched exponential and constant kernels.",
    "title": "Species clustering in competitive Lotka-Volterra models.",
    "abstract": "We study a six-species Lotka-Volterra-type system on different two-dimensional lattices when each species has two superior and two inferior partners. The invasion rates from predator sites to a randomly chosen neighboring prey site depend on the predator-prey pair, whereby cyclic symmetries within the two three-species defensive alliances are conserved. Monte Carlo simulations reveal an unexpected nonmonotonous dependence of alliance survival on the difference of alliance-specific invasion rates. This behavior is qualitatively reproduced by a four-point mean-field approximation. The study addresses fundamental problems of stability for the competition of two defensive alliances and thus has important implications in natural and social sciences.",
    "title": "Cyclical interactions with alliance-specific heterogeneous invasion rates.",
    "abstract": "The linear instability of Lotka-Volterra orbits in the homogenous manifold of a two-patch system is analyzed. The origin of these orbits instability in the absence of prey migration is revealed to be the dependence of the angular velocity on the azimuthal angle; in particular, the system desynchronizes at the exit from the slow part of the trajectory. Using this insight, an analogous model of a two coupled oscillator is presented and shown to yield the same type of linear instability. This enables one to incorporate the linear instability within a recently presented general framework that allows for comparison of all known stabilization mechanisms and for simple classification of observed oscillations.",
    "title": "Angular velocity variations and stability of spatially explicit prey-predator systems.",
    "abstract": "Metagenomic analyses suggest that the rank-abundance curve for marine phage communities follows a power law distribution. A new type of power law dependence based on a simple model in which a modified version of Lotka-Volterra predator-prey dynamics is sampled uniformly in time is presented. Biologically, the model embodies a kill the winner hypothesis and a neutral evolution hypothesis. The model can match observed power law distributions and uses very few parameters that are readily identifiable and characterize phage ecosystems. The model makes new untested predictions: (1) it is unlikely that the most abundant phage genotype will be the same at different time points and (2) the long-term decay of isolated phage populations follows a power law.",
    "title": "Power law rank-abundance models for marine phage communities.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the influence of functional responses (Lotka-Volterra or Holling type), initial topological web structure (randomly connected or niche model), adaptive behavior (adaptive foraging and predator avoidance) and the type of constraints on the adaptive behavior (linear or nonlinear) on the stability and structure of food webs. Two kinds of stability are considered: one is the network robustness (i.e., the proportion of species surviving after population dynamics) and the other is the species deletion stability. When evaluating the network structure, we consider link density as well as the trophic level structure. We show that the types of functional responses and initial web structure do not have a large effect on the stability of food webs, but foraging behavior has a large stabilizing effect. It leads to a positive complexity-stability relationship whenever higher \"complexity\" implies more potential prey per species. The other type of adaptive behavior, predator avoidance behavior, makes food webs only slightly more stable. The observed link density after population dynamics depends strongly on the presence or absence of adaptive foraging, and on the type of constraints used. We also show that the trophic level structure is preserved under population dynamics with adaptive foraging.",
    "title": "Relation between complexity and stability in food webs with adaptive behavior.",
    "abstract": "Over the past decade an increasing number of studies have experimentally manipulated the number of species in a community and examined how this alters the aggregate production of species biomass. Many of these studies have shown that the effects of richness on biomass change through time, but we have limited understanding of the mechanisms that produce these dynamic trends. Here we report the results of an experiment in which we manipulated the richness of freshwater algae in laboratory microcosms. We used two experimental designs (additive and substitutive) that make different assumptions about how patches are initially colonized, and then tracked the development of community biomass from the point of initial colonization through a period of 6-12 generations of the focal species. We found that the effect of initial species richness on biomass production qualitatively shifted twice over the course of the experiment. The first shift occurred as species transitioned from density-independent to dependent phases of population growth. At this time, intraspecific competition caused monocultures to approach their respective carrying capacities more slowly than polycultures. As a consequence, species tended to over-yield for a brief time, generating a positive, but transient effect of diversity on community biomass. The second shift occurred as communities approached carrying capacity. At this time, strong interspecific interactions caused biomass to be dominated by the competitively superior species in polycultures. As this species had the lowest carrying capacity, a negative effect of diversity on biomass resulted in late succession. Although these two shifts produced dynamics that appeared complex, we show that the patterns can be fit to a simple Lotka-Volterra model of competition. Our results suggest that the effects of algal diversity on primary production change in a predictable sequence through successional time.",
    "title": "Effects of species diversity on community biomass production change over the course of succession.",
    "abstract": "We study a chemostat model that describes competition between two species for two essential resources based on storage. The model incorporates internal resource storage variables that serve the direct connection between species growth and external resource availability. Mathematical analysis for the global dynamics of the model is carried out by using the monotone dynamical system theory. It is shown that the limiting system of the model basically exhibits the familiar Lotka-Volterra alternatives: competitive exclusion, coexistence, and bi-stability, and most of these results can be carried over to the original model.",
    "title": "Global dynamics of microbial competition for two resources with internal storage.",
    "abstract": "This study provides a novel explanation to put forward, in Lotka-Volterra competition model and game theory, interspecific competition in bioaugmentation using constructed mixed consortia for azo dye decolorization. As mixed cultures are regularly used in industrial dye-laden wastewater treatment, understanding species competition of mixed consortia is apparently of great importance to azo dye decolorization. In aerobic growth conditions, Escherichia coli DH5alpha owned a growth advantage to out-compete Pseudomonas luteola due to preferential growth rate of DH5alpha. However, in static decolorization conditions DH5alpha surrendered some proportion of its advantage (i.e., a decrease in its competitive power for metabolite stimulation) to enhance color removal of P. luteola for total coexistence. In aerobic growth, DH5alpha had its growth advantage to exclude P. luteola for dominance (i.e, conflict strategy) according to competitive exclusion principle. In static decolorization conditions, as the removal of a common dye threat was crucial to both species for survival, both species selected cooperation strategy through metabolite stimulation of DH5alpha to enhance effective decolorization of P. luteola for long-term sustainable management. This analysis of game theory clearly unlocked unsolved mysteries in previous studies.",
    "title": "Revealing characteristics of mixed consortia for azo dye decolorization: Lotka-Volterra model and game theory.",
    "abstract": "In this work, important aspects of bacteriocin producing bacteria and their interplay are elucidated. Various attempts to model the resistant, producer and sensitive Escherichia coli strains in the so-called rock-scissors-paper (RSP) game had been made in the literature. The question arose whether there is a continuous model with a cyclic structure and admitting an oscillatory dynamics as observed in various experiments. The May-Leonard system admits a Hopf bifurcation, which is, however, degenerate and hence inadequate. The traditional differential equation model of the RSP-game cannot be applied either to the bacteriocin system because it involves positive interaction terms. In this paper, a plausible competitive Lotka-Volterra system model of the RSP game is presented and the dynamics generated by that model is analyzed. For the first time, a continuous, spatially homogeneous model that describes the competitive interaction between bacteriocin-producing, resistant and sensitive bacteria is established. The interaction terms have negative coefficients. In some experiments, for example, in mice cultures, migration seemed to be essential for the reinfection in the RSP cycle. Often statistical and spatial effects such as migration and mutation are regarded to be essential for periodicity. Our model gives rise to oscillatory dynamics in the RSP game without such effects. Here, a normal form description of the limit cycle and conditions for its stability are derived. The toxicity of the bacteriocin is used as a bifurcation parameter. Exact parameter ranges are obtained for which a stable (robust) limit cycle and a stable heteroclinic cycle exist in the three-species game. These parameters are in good accordance with the observed relations for the E. coli strains. The roles of growth rate and growth yield of the three strains are discussed. Numerical calculations show that the sensitive, which might be regarded as the weakest, can have the longest sojourn times.",
    "title": "Continuous model for the rock-scissors-paper game between bacteriocin producing bacteria.",
    "abstract": "It takes time for individuals to move from place to place. This travel time can be incorporated into metapopulation models via a delay in the interpatch migration term. Such a term has been shown to stabilize the positive equilibrium of the classical Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system with one species (either the predator or the prey) dispersing. We study a more realistic, Rosenzweig-MacArthur, model that includes a carrying capacity for the prey, and saturating functional response for the predator. We show that dispersal delays can stabilize the predator-prey equilibrium point despite the presence of a Type II functional response that is known to be destabilizing. We also show that dispersal delays reduce the amplitude of oscillations when the equilibrium is unstable, and therefore may help resolve the paradox of enrichment.",
    "title": "Dispersal delays, predator-prey stability, and the paradox of enrichment.",
    "abstract": "The Leslie-Gower model is a discrete time analog of the competition Lotka-Volterra model and is known to possess the same dynamic scenarios of that famous model. The Leslie-Gower model played a historically significant role in the history of competition theory in its application to classic laboratory experiments of two competing species of flour beetles (carried out by Park in the 1940s-1960s). While these experiments generally supported what became the Competitive Exclusion Principle, Park observed an anomalous coexistence case. Recent literature has discussed Park's 'coexistence case' by means of non-Lotka-Volterra, non-equilibrium dynamics that occur in a high dimensional model with life cycle stages. We study this dynamic possibility in the lowest possible dimension, that is to say, by means of a model involving only two species each with two life cycle stages. We do this by extending the Leslie-Gower model so as to describe the competitive interaction of two species with juvenile and adult classes. We give a complete account of the global dynamics of the resulting model and show that it allows for non-equilibrium competitive coexistence as competition coefficients are increased. We also show that this phenomenon occurs in a general class of models for competing populations structured by juvenile and adult life cycle stages.",
    "title": "Coexistence of competing juvenile-adult structured populations.",
    "abstract": "We propose an analog integrated circuit that implements a resonate-and-fire neuron (RFN) model based on the Lotka-Volterra (LV) system. The RFN model is a spiking neuron model that has second-order membrane dynamics, and thus exhibits fast damped subthreshold oscillation, resulting in the coincidence detection, frequency preference, and post-inhibitory rebound. The RFN circuit has been derived from the LV system to mimic such dynamical behavior of the RFN model. Through circuit simulations, we demonstrate that the RFN circuit can act as a coincidence detector and a band-pass filter at circuit level even in the presence of additive white noise and background random activity. These results show that our circuit is expected to be useful for very large-scale integration (VLSI) implementation of functional spiking neural networks.",
    "title": "Analog VLSI implementation of resonate-and-fire neuron.",
    "abstract": "Cyclic dominance of species has been identified as a potential mechanism to maintain biodiversity, see, e.g., B. Kerr, M. A. Riley, M. W. Feldman and B. J. M. Bohannan [Nature 418, 171 (2002)] and B. Kirkup and M. A. Riley [Nature 428, 412 (2004)]. Through analytical methods supported by numerical simulations, we address this issue by studying the properties of a paradigmatic non-spatial three-species stochastic system, namely, the \"rock-paper-scissors\" or cyclic Lotka-Volterra model. While the deterministic approach (rate equations) predicts the coexistence of the species resulting in regular (yet neutrally stable) oscillations of the population densities, we demonstrate that fluctuations arising in the system with a finite number of agents drastically alter this picture and are responsible for extinction: After long enough time, two of the three species die out. As main findings we provide analytic estimates and numerical computation of the extinction probability at a given time. We also discuss the implications of our results for a broad class of competing population systems.",
    "title": "Coexistence versus extinction in the stochastic cyclic Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we explore a stochastic model in continuous time for predator-prey interactions, which accounts for the periodical behaviour observed in many animal populations. More precisely, we consider a solution to the classical Lotka-Volterra system of equations, but we view the actual population sizes as random perturbations of the solutions to this ODE system. Namely, we assume that the perturbations follow correlated Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes; this approach generalizes the one of Froda and Colavita [Aust N Z J Stat 2:235-254, 2005] who considered only i.i.d. errors. This type of perturbed deterministic model allows to perform parameter estimation and to predict population sizes at future times. On the other hand, the present model refines the previous one since it takes into account the variability due to external factors and the time dependence in the random component. Moreover, this more flexible model improves the predictions of population sizes at future times. In order to illustrate this last point, we analyse two data sets.",
    "title": "Prediction of predator-prey populations modelled by perturbed ODEs.",
    "abstract": "Local analysis of trajectories of dynamical systems near an attractive periodic orbit displays the notion of asymptotic phase and isochrons. These notions are quite useful in applications to biosciences. In this note, we give an expression for the first approximation of equations of isochrons in the setting of perturbations of polynomial Hamiltonian systems. This method can be generalized to perturbations of systems that have a polynomial integral factor (like the Lotka-Volterra equation).",
    "title": "Approximation for limit cycles and their isochrons.",
    "abstract": "We consider a class of Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with delays. We prove the existence and global asymptotic stability of an equilibrium point and estimate the region of existence. Furthermore, we show that the trajectories of the neural networks with positive initial data will stay in the positive region if the amplification function satisfies a divergent condition. We also establish the existence of a globally attracting compact set for more general networks. We estimate this compact set explicitly in terms of the network parameters from physiological and biological models. Our results can be applied to neural networks with a wide range of activation functions which are neither bounded nor globally Lipschitz continuous such as the Lotka-Volterra model. We also give some examples and simulations.",
    "title": "Global attraction and stability for Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with delays.",
    "abstract": "Bascompte et al. (Reports, 21 April 2006, p. 431) used network asymmetries to explain mathematical conditions necessary for stability in historic models of mutualism. The Lotka-Volterra equations they used artificially created conditions in which some factor, such as asymmetric interaction strengths, is necessary for community coexistence. We show that a more realistic model incorporating nonlinear functional responses requires no such condition and is consistent with their data.",
    "title": "Comment on \"Asymmetric coevolutionary networks facilitate biodiversity maintenance\".",
    "abstract": "The role that interspecific interactions play in shaping parasite communities is uncertain. To date, models of competition between helminth species have assumed that interaction occurs through parasite-induced host death. To our knowledge, there has been no theoretical exploration of other forms of competition. We examine models in which competition acts at the point of establishment within the host, and at the time of egg production by the adult worm. The models used are stochastic and we allow hosts to vary in their rate of exposure to infective larvae. We derive the Lotka-Volterra model of competition when exposure is homogenous and thus demonstrate that two helminth species cannot coexist on a single limiting resource. We show that coexistence of species is promoted by heterogeneity in host exposure provided that the rates of exposure to the two species are not perfectly correlated, and, if they are positively correlated, provided that the degree of heterogeneity in host exposure is similar for the two competing helminth species. These results are robust to the mechanism of competition.",
    "title": "Population biology of multispecies helminth infection: competition and coexistence.",
    "abstract": "Recent empirical studies have found evidence of increased biomass production ('overyielding') in species mixtures relative to monoculture, but the interpretation of these results remains controversial, in part, because of the lack of a theoretical expectation. Here, we examined the expected frequency and stability of overyielding species mixtures using Lotka-Volterra models of species dynamics in two- and four-species systems in conjunction with community, population, and specific rate of biomass production (SRP) definitions of overyielding. Overyielding plant mixtures represented > 55% of potential species assemblages under community definitions and approximately 100% of species were either overyielding or underyielding under the population definition. Our species simulations approached their equilibria in 1-2 yr, supporting the relevancy of an equilibrial analysis. The range of parameter space that we explored produced realistic values of plot biomass, supporting their biological relevance. We show that overyielding is expected to be common under community definitions and population definitions. Overyielding, under community or population definitions, does not imply an actual increase in the specific rate of biomass production. In addition, assemblages of overyielding and underyielding species under all three definitions can be stable over time with underyielding species persisting in the presence of overyielding species.",
    "title": "Overyielding and species diversity: what should we expect?",
    "abstract": "We develop from basic principles a two-species differential equations model which exhibits mutualistic population interactions. The model is similar in spirit to a commonly cited model [Dean, A.M., Am. Nat. 121(3), 409-417 (1983)], but corrects problems due to singularities in that model. In addition, we investigate our model in more depth by varying the intrinsic growth rate for each of the species and analyzing the resulting bifurcations in system behavior. We are especially interested in transitions between facultative and obligate mutualism. The model reduces to the familiar Lotka-Volterra model locally, but is more realistic for large populations in the case where mutualist interaction is strong. In particular, our model supports population thresholds necessary for survival in certain cases, but does this without allowing unbounded population growth. Experimental implications are discussed for a lichen population.",
    "title": "A bifurcation analysis of a differential equations model for mutualism.",
    "abstract": "This paper studies a non-autonomous Lotka-Volterra almost periodic predator-prey dispersal system with discrete and continuous time delays which consists of n-patches, the prey species can disperse among n-patches, but the predator species is confined to one patch and cannot disperse. By using comparison theorem and delay differential equation basic theory, we prove the system is uniformly persistent under some appropriate conditions. Further, by constructing suitable Lyapunov functional, we show that the system is globally asymptotically stable under some appropriate conditions. By using almost periodic functional hull theory, we show that the almost periodic system has a unique globally asymptotical stable strictly positive almost periodic solution. The conditions for the permanence, global stability of system and the existence, uniqueness of positive almost periodic solution depend on delays, so, time delays are \"profitless\". Finally, conclusions and two particular cases are given. These results are basically an extension of the known results for non-autonomous Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "title": "Almost periodic solution of non-autonomous Lotka-Volterra predator-prey dispersal system with delays.",
    "abstract": "The paper is concerned with the effect of variable dispersal rates on Turing instability of a non-Lotka-Volterra reaction-diffusion system. In ecological applications, the dispersal rates of different species tends to oscillate in time. This oscillation is modeled by temporal variation in the diffusion coefficient with large as well as small periodicity. The case of large periodicity is analyzed using the theory of Floquet multipliers and that of the small periodicity by using Hill's equation. The effect of such variation on the resulting Turing space is studied. A comparative analysis of the Turing spaces with constant diffusivity and variable diffusivities is performed. Numerical simulations are carried out to support analytical findings.",
    "title": "Modeling the role of diffusion coefficients on Turing instability in a reaction-diffusion prey-predator system.",
    "abstract": "The problem of monitoring arises when in an ecosystem, in particular in a system of several populations, observing some components, we want to recover the state of the whole system as a function of time. Due to the difficulty to construct exactly this state process, we look for an auxiliary system called an observer. This system reproduces this process with a certain approximation. This means that the solution of the observer tends to that of the original system. An important concept for this work is observability. This means that from the observation it is possible to recover uniquely the state process, however, without determining a constructive method to obtain it. If observability holds for the original system, it guarantees the existence of an auxiliary matrix that makes it possible to construct an observer of the system. The considered system of populations is described by the classical Lotka-Volterra model with one predator and two preys and the construction of its observer is illustrated with a numerical example. Finally, it is shown how the observer can be used for the estimation of the level of an abiotic effect on the population system.",
    "title": "Monitoring in a Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "Including spatial structure and stochastic noise invalidates the classical Lotka-Volterra picture of stable regular population cycles emerging in models for predator-prey interactions. Growth-limiting terms for the prey induce a continuous extinction threshold for the predator population whose critical properties are in the directed percolation universality class. We discuss the robustness of this scenario by considering an ecologically inspired stochastic lattice predator-prey model variant where the predation process includes next-nearest-neighbor interactions. We find that the corresponding stochastic model reproduces the above scenario in dimensions 1< d < or =4, in contrast with the mean-field theory, which predicts a first-order phase transition. However, the mean-field features are recovered upon allowing for nearest-neighbor particle exchange processes, provided these are sufficiently fast.",
    "title": "Fluctuations and correlations in lattice models for predator-prey interaction.",
    "abstract": "Mixed-substrate microbial growth is of fundamental interest in microbiology and bioengineering. Several mathematical models have been developed to account for the genetic regulation of such systems, especially those resulting in diauxic growth. In this work, we compare the dynamics of three such models (Narang, 1998a. The dynamical analogy between microbial growth on mixtures of substrates and population growth of competing species. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 59, 116-121; Thattai and Shraiman, 2003. Metabolic switching in the sugar phosphotransferase system of Escherichia coli. Biophys. J. 85(2), 744-754; Brandt et al., 2004. Modelling microbial adaptation to changing availability of substrates. Water Res. 38, 1004-1013). We show that these models are dynamically similar--the initial motion of the inducible enzymes in all the models is described by the Lotka-Volterra equations for competing species. In particular, the prediction of diauxic growth corresponds to \"extinction\" of one of the enzymes during the first few hours of growth. The dynamic similarity occurs because in all the models, the inducible enzymes possess properties characteristic of competing species: they are required for their own synthesis, and they inhibit each other. Despite this dynamic similarity, the models vary with respect to the range of dynamics captured. The Brandt et al. model always predicts the diauxic growth pattern, whereas the remaining two models exhibit both diauxic and non-diauxic growth patterns. The models also differ with respect to the mechanisms that generate the mutual inhibition between the enzymes. In the Narang model, mutual inhibition occurs because the enzymes for each substrate enhance the dilution of the enzymes for the other substrate. The Brandt et al. model superimposes upon this dilution effect an additional mechanism of mutual inhibition. In the Thattai and Shraiman model, the mutual inhibition is entirely due to competition for the phosphoryl groups. For quantitative agreement with the data, all models must be modified to account for specific mechanisms of mutual inhibition, such as inducer exclusion.",
    "title": "Comparative analysis of some models of gene regulation in mixed-substrate microbial growth.",
    "abstract": "We analyse the influence of various stochastic perturbations on prey-predator systems. The prey-predator model is described by stochastic versions of a deterministic Lotka-Volterra system. We study long-time behaviour of both trajectories and distributions of the solutions. We indicate the differences between the deterministic and stochastic models.",
    "title": "Influence of stochastic perturbation on prey-predator systems.",
    "abstract": "The establishment and spread of invasive or nonindigenous species has caused concern from stakeholders in affected areas, and has prompted many field and modeling studies. We used stochastic two species, circular three patch dynamic models to investigate the patterns of invasion and impacts upon the affected species. Both persistent and degradable toxicants were incorporated as parts of the model system to act as disturbance regimens. There is a clear series of patterns that result from these simulations. Competition increases population variability, but decreases the number of distinct outcomes possible from the same initial conditions. Isolation of the patch of the introduction was the main determinant of successful establishment through a process we call the beachhead effect. Coexistence of species was often possible in local patches, contrary to the analytical solutions of Lotka-Volterra equations and numerous modeling studies. Contaminants and their resultant disturbances are important as contributors to the stochastic nature of models. The stochasticity leads to a variety of outcomes from some sets of initial conditions. Different outcomes have different probabilities of occurrence and are dependent upon the specific initial conditions of the simulation. A clear pattern that is apparent is the \"beachhead effect,\" where the invasive establishes a population within a relatively remote patch before migrating to the remainder of the landscape. We make predictions and provide specific research hypotheses as to the causes and effects of invasive species establishment, spread, and impacts.",
    "title": "Modeling the risks of nonindigenous species introductions using a patch-dynamics approach incorporating contaminant effects as a disturbance.",
    "abstract": "This work presents a predator-prey Lotka-Volterra model in a two patch environment. The model is a set of four ordinary differential equations that govern the prey and predator population densities on each patch. Predators disperse with constant migration rates, while prey dispersal is predator density-dependent. When the predator density is large, the dispersal of prey is more likely to occur. We assume that prey and predator dispersal is faster than the local predator-prey interaction on each patch. Thus, we take advantage of two time scales in order to reduce the complete model to a system of two equations governing the total prey and predator densities. The stability analysis of the aggregated model shows that a unique strictly positive equilibrium exists. This equilibrium may be stable or unstable. A Hopf bifurcation may occur, leading the equilibrium to be a centre. If the two patches are similar, the predator density dependent dispersal of prey has a stabilizing effect on the predator-prey system.",
    "title": "Effect of predator density dependent dispersal of prey on stability of a predator-prey system.",
    "abstract": "The classical case of three competitors arranged on a resource gradient such that the central competitor will be excluded due to competition from the other two is studied from the point of view of the effects of added predators. The basic formulation is motivated by a desire to understand the effects of asymmetries in multidimensional Lotka-Volterra systems. We first study the effects of perfectly specialist predators and find a rich collection of possible behaviors of the system including (1) extinction of all predators and subsequent extinction of the subordinate competitor, (2) dominant competitors and their predators coexist but the subdominant competitor goes extinct, (3) all species except the predator of the subordinate competitor coexist in coordinated phase-reversed chaos, (4) exclusion of one or more species occurs through an expanding heteroclinic cycle, and (5) all species coexist in an uncoordinated chaos. We then study the effects of five qualitatively distinct forms of polyphagy. In one case, corresponding to the well-known vulnerability to predation versus competitive ability trade-off, it is possible to have the subordinate competitor be the only survivor in the system. The other three cases of polyphagy lead to distortions in the basic pattern seen in the previously analyzed specialist case. Studying this case of ecologically motivated asymmetries in the basic Lotka-Volterra formulation is a step in the direction of fully understanding interacting populations.",
    "title": "Effects of predation pressure on species packing on a resource gradient: insights from nonlinear dynamics.",
    "abstract": "We consider the following Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system with two delays: x '( t ) = x ( t ) [ r(1) - ax ( t - tau(1) ) - by( t ) ] y '( t ) = y ( t ) [ - r(1) + cx ( t ) - dy( t - tau(2) ) ] ( E ) We show that a positive equilibrium of system ( E ) is globally asymptotically stable for small delays. Critical values of time delay through which system ( E ) undergoes a Hopf bifurcation are analytically determined. Some numerical simulations suggest an existence of subcritical Hopf bifurcation near the critical values of time delay. Further system (E) exhibits some chaotic behavior when tau(2) becomes large.",
    "title": "Stability, delay, and chaotic behavior in a lotka-volterra predator-prey system.",
    "abstract": "The permanence of the following Lotka-Volterra system with time delays x '(1) ( t ) = x(1) ( t ) [ r(1) - a(1)x(1) ( t ) + a(11)x(1) ( t - tau(11) ) + a(12)x(2) ( t - tau(12) ) ] x '(2) ( t ) = x(2) ( t ) [ r(2) - a(2)x(2) ( t ) + a(21)x(1) ( t - tau(21) ) + a(22)x(2) ( t - tau(22) ) ] is considered.With intraspecific competition, it is proved that in competitive case, the system is permanent if and only if the interaction matrix of the system satisfies condition (C1) and in cooperative case it is proved that condition (C2) is sufficient for the permanence of the system.",
    "title": "Permanence for two-species lotka-volterra systems with delays.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with prey density dependence shows the final prey density to be independent of its vital rates. This result assumes the community to be well mixed so that encounters between predators and prey occur as a product of the landscape densities, yet empirical evidence suggests that over small spatial scales this may not be the normal pattern. Starting from an individual-based model with neighborhood interactions and movements, a deterministic approximation is derived, and the effect of local spatial structure on equilibrium densities is investigated. Incorporating local movements and local interactions has important consequences for the community dynamics. Now the final prey density is very much dependent on its birth, death, and movement rates and in ways that seem counterintuitive. Increasing prey fecundity or mobility and decreasing the coefficient of competition can all lead to decreases in the final density of prey if the predator is also relatively immobile. However, analysis of the deterministic approximation makes the mechanism for these results clear; each of these changes subtly alters the emergent spatial structure, leading to an increase in the predator-prey spatial covariance at short distances and hence to a higher predation pressure on the prey.",
    "title": "Local spatial structure and predator-prey dynamics: counterintuitive effects of prey enrichment.",
    "abstract": "Methods are presented for simulating chemical reaction networks with a spatial resolution that is accurate to nearly the size scale of individual molecules. Using an intuitive picture of chemical reaction systems, each molecule is treated as a point-like particle that diffuses freely in three-dimensional space. When a pair of reactive molecules collide, such as an enzyme and its substrate, a reaction occurs and the simulated reactants are replaced by products. Achieving accurate bimolecular reaction kinetics is surprisingly difficult, requiring a careful consideration of reaction processes that are often overlooked. This includes whether the rate of a reaction is at steady-state and the probability that multiple reaction products collide with each other to yield a back reaction. Inputs to the simulation are experimental reaction rates, diffusion coefficients and the simulation time step. From these are calculated the simulation parameters, including the 'binding radius' and the 'unbinding radius', where the former defines the separation for a molecular collision and the latter is the initial separation between a pair of reaction products. Analytic solutions are presented for some simulation parameters while others are calculated using look-up tables. Capabilities of these methods are demonstrated with simulations of a simple bimolecular reaction and the Lotka-Volterra system.",
    "title": "Stochastic simulation of chemical reactions with spatial resolution and single molecule detail.",
    "abstract": "A symbiotic ecosystem with Gompertz self-regulation and with adaptive competition between populations is studied by means of a N-species Lotka-Volterra stochastic model. The influence of fluctuating environment on the carrying capacity of a population is modeled as a dichotomous noise. The study is a follow up of previous investigations of symbiotic ecosystems subjected to the generalized Verhulst self-regulation [Phys. Rev. E 69, 061106 (2004); 65, 051108 (2002)]. In the framework of mean-field approximation the behavior of the solutions of the self-consistency equation for a stationary system is examined analytically in the full phase space of system parameters. Depending on the mutual interplay of symbiosis and competition of species, variation of noise parameters (amplitude, correlation time) can induce doubly unidirectional discontinuous transitions as well as single unidirectional discontinuous transitions of the mean population size.",
    "title": "Addendum to \"Colored-noise-induced discontinuous transitions in symbiotic ecosystems\".",
    "abstract": "There are many types of neural networks involved in the sequential motor behavior of animals. For high species, the control and coordination of the network dynamics is a function of the higher levels of the central nervous system, in particular the cerebellum. However, in many cases, especially for invertebrates, such coordination is the result of direct synaptic connections between small circuits. We show here that even the chaotic sequential activity of small model networks can be coordinated by electrotonic synapses connecting one or several pairs of neurons that belong to two different networks. As an example, we analyzed the coordination and synchronization of the sequential activity of two statocyst model networks of the marine mollusk Clione. The statocysts are gravity sensory organs that play a key role in postural control of the animal and the generation of a complex hunting motor program. Each statocyst network was modeled by a small ensemble of neurons with Lotka-Volterra type dynamics and nonsymmetric inhibitory interactions. We studied how two such networks were synchronized by electrical coupling in the presence of an external signal which lead to winnerless competition among the neurons. We found that as a function of the number and the strength of connections between the two networks, it is possible to coordinate and synchronize the sequences that each network generates with its own chaotic dynamics. In spite of the chaoticity, the coordination of the signals is established through an activation sequence lock for those neurons that are active at a particular instant of time.",
    "title": "Synchronization and coordination of sequences in two neural ensembles.",
    "abstract": "Competition is often invoked as the cause of plant species loss with increasing system productivity. Experimental results for multispecies assemblages are virtually absent and mathematical models are thus used to explore the relationship between competition and coexistence. Modelling approaches to coexistence and diversity in competitive communities commonly employ Lotka-Volterra-type (LV) models with additive pairwise competitive effects. Using pairwise plant competition experiments, we calibrate the LV system and use it to predict plant biomass and coexistence in six three-species and one seven-species experimental mixture. Our results show that five out of the six three-species sets and the seven-species set deviate significantly from LV model predictions. Fitting an additional non-additive competition coefficient resulted in predictions that more closely matched the experimental results, with stable coexistence suggested in all but one case. These results are discussed with particular reference to the possible underlying mechanisms of coexistence in our experimental community. Modelling the effect of competition intensity on stability indicates that if non-additive effects occur, they will be relevant over a wide range of community sizes. Our findings caution against relying on coexistence predictions based on LV models.",
    "title": "Experimental evidence rejects pairwise modelling approach to coexistence in plant communities.",
    "abstract": "Pneumocystis are fungal pathogens of mammalian lungs that can cause lethal pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts. In some mammals, coinfections of genetically distinct Pneumocystis populations have been identified, but the nature of their interaction and its significance are unknown. Two species that infect rats, Pneumocystis carinii and Pneumocystis wakefieldiae, were studied over a 6-year period, representing approximately 700 generations of Pneumocystis. Population densities of each species were analyzed within the framework of the Lotka-Volterra competition model, which revealed the two species were in competition and predicted competitive exclusion of one species. However, stable coexistence was observed in 460 replicate populations. Selected extrinsic factors that might mitigate the extinction were evaluated. Logistic-regression analyses showed that higher relative humidity and higher organism lung burdens were associated with infections comprised of P. carinii alone, while lower temperatures and an increased rat census were associated with the presence of P. wakefieldiae. PCR and immunofluorescent analysis of rat lung tissue showed that both species were present within the same alveoli, excluding habitat heterogeneity as a mechanism of coexistence. These data suggest that P. carinii and P. wakefieldiae were in competitive coexistence, which was influenced in part by extrinsic factors. To our knowledge, this is the first report to evaluate interactions of pathogenic fungal species within a mammalian host using ecological models.",
    "title": "Competitive coexistence of two Pneumocystis species.",
    "abstract": "Research of the effect of space environment on an ecosystem consisting of plants and animals is essential when they are to be positively used in space. Although there have been experiments on various organisms under space environment in the past, they mainly studied the effect of space environment on an individual organism or a single species. Microcosm is drawing attention as an experimental material of an ecosystem consisting of multiple species. The object in this research is to understand the nature of this network system called ecosystem. Thus, a mixed microorganism culturing system consisting of three types of microorganisms which form a minimum food chain system as a closed ecosystem (chlorella as the producer, bacteria as the decomposer, and rotifer as the consumer) was taken for the subject, on which to research the universal characteristics of ecosystems. From the results of experiments under the terrestrial environment, formation of colonies, which is an ecological structure, has been observed at its mature stage. The organisms form an optimal substance circulation system. Therefore, formation of colonies in simulation models is important. Many attempts have been made to create ecosystem models. For example, the Lotka-Volterra model forms a simultaneous equation with the differential equation expressing predator and prey relationship and many numerical calculations have been conducted on various ecosystems based on expanded L-V models. Conventionally, these top-down methods have been used. However, since this method only describes the average concentration of organisms that are distributed uniformly throughout the system and cannot express the spatial structure of the system, it was difficult to express ecosystem structures like colonies and density distributions. In actual ecosystems, there is heterogeneity in the number of individuals and in substance density, and this is thought to have great significance in ecosystems. Consequently, an individual-based model was used that applies rules to predator-prey relationship, suppression, production, self suppression, etc., of each species. It enabled the emergence of the overall system only by its local rules, and it was possible to reproduce colony generation. In addition, the transition and the ratio of populations for each species match well with experimental results.",
    "title": "Examination of a smallest CELSS (microcosm) through an individual-based model simulation.",
    "abstract": "We study the properties of a n2-dimensional Lotka-Volterra system describing competing species that include behaviorally adaptive abilities. We indicate as behavioral adaptation a mechanism, based on a kind of learning, which is not viewed in the evolutionary sense but is intended to occur over shorter time scales. We consider a competitive adaptive n species Lotka-Volterra system, n > or = 3, in which one species is made ecologically differentiated with respect to the others by carrying capacity and intrinsic growth rate. The symmetry properties of the system and the existence of a certain class of invariant subspaces allow the introduction of a 7-dimensional reduced model, where n appears as a parameter, which gives full account of existence and stability of equilibria in the complete system. The reduced model is effective also in describing the time-dependent regimes for a large range of parameter values. The case in which one species has a strong ecological advantage (i.e. with a carrying capacity higher than the others), but with a varying growth rate, has been analyzed in detail, and time-dependent behaviors have been investigated in the case of adaptive competition among four species. Relevant questions, as species survival/exclusion, are addressed focusing on the role of adaptation. Interesting forms of species coexistence are found (i.e. competitive stable equilibria, periodic oscillations, strange attractors).",
    "title": "Effects of ecological differentiation on Lotka-Volterra systems for species with behavioral adaptation and variable growth rates.",
    "abstract": "Museum records indicate that Hybognathus placitus was introduced into the Pecos River, New Mexico during the early 1960s. Approximately 10 years later, a congener, Hybognathus amarus, was extirpated from the system. We used microsatellite and mtDNA data, ecological data and modelling, and a computer simulation approach to reconstruct the history of invasion and species replacement. To identify the potential role of hybridization and introgression, we genetically screened H. amarus (n = 389) from the Rio Grande, New Mexico, and H. placitus (n = 424) from the Pecos River, New Mexico using four nuclear microsatellites and a partial fragment of the mtDNA ND4 gene. Assignment tests excluded hybridization as a primary factor in species replacement and suggested a role for interspecific competition. Genetic analyses showed that H. placitus were introduced into the Pecos River from at least two genetically distinct source populations in the Canadian and Red rivers, Oklahoma. Lotka-Volterra models of interspecific competition indicated that the number of founding individuals could have been as few as 20 for H. placitus to have competitively displaced H. amarus in the Pecos River in 10 to 15 generations. Observed differences of allele frequencies between source and founder populations indicated that between 32 and 115 H. placitus individuals founded the Pecos River. Genetic and ecological data suggest that interspecific competition could have led to species replacement in this arid-land river system.",
    "title": "Genetic and ecological dynamics of species replacement in an arid-land river system.",
    "abstract": "We determine the adaptive dynamics of a general Lotka-Volterra system containing an intraspecific parameter dependency--in the form of an explicit functional trade-off between evolving parameters--and interspecific parameter dependencies--arising from modelling species interactions. We develop expressions for the fitness of a mutant strategy in a multi-species resident environment, the position of the singular strategy in such systems and the non-mixed second-order partial derivatives of the mutant fitness. These expressions can be used to determine the evolutionary behaviour of the system. The type of behaviour expected depends on the curvature of the trade-off function and can be interpreted in a biologically intuitive manner using the rate of acceleration/deceleration of the costs implicit in the trade-off function. We show that for evolutionary branching to occur we require that one (or both) of the traded-off parameters includes an interspecific parameter dependency and that the trade-off function has weakly accelerating costs. This could have important implications for understanding the type of mechanisms that cause speciation. The general theory is motivated by using adaptive dynamics to examine evolution in a predator-prey system. The applicability of the general theory as a tool for examining specific systems is highlighted by calculating the evolutionary behaviour in a three species (prey-predator-predator) system.",
    "title": "Adaptive dynamics of Lotka-Volterra systems with trade-offs: the role of interspecific parameter dependence in branching.",
    "abstract": "This paper deals with the study of a predator-prey model in a patchy environment. Prey individuals moves on two patches, one is a refuge and the second one contains predator individuals. The movements are assumed to be faster than growth and predator-prey interaction processes. Each patch is assumed to be homogeneous. The spatial heterogeneity is obtained by assuming that the demographic parameters (growth rates, predation rates and mortality rates) depend on the patches. On the predation patch, we use a Lotka-Volterra model. Since the movements are faster that the other processes, we may assume that the frequency of prey and predators become constant and we would get a global predator-prey model, which is shown to be a Lotka-Volterra one. However, this simplified model at the population level does not match the dynamics obtained with the complete initial model. We explain this phenomenom and we continue the analysis in order to give a two-dimensional predator-prey model that gives the same dynamics as that provided by the complete initial one. We use this simplified model to study the impact of spatial heterogeneity and movements on the system stability. This analysis shows that there is a globally asymptotically stable equilibrium in the positive quadrant, i.e. the spatial heterogeneity stabilizes the equilibrium.",
    "title": "Impact of spatial heterogeneity on a predator-prey system dynamics.",
    "abstract": "This paper deals with an almost global convergence result for Lotka-Volterra systems with predator-prey interactions. These systems can be written as (negative) feedback systems. The subsystems of the feedback loop are monotone control systems, possessing particular input-output properties. We use a small-gain theorem, adapted to a context of systems with multiple equilibrium points to obtain the desired almost global convergence result, which provides sufficient conditions to rule out oscillatory or more complicated behavior that is often observed in predator-prey systems.",
    "title": "On predator-prey systems and small-gain theorems.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the possibility of coexistence of pure, inherited strategies belonging to a large set of potential strategies. We prove that under biologically relevant conditions every model allowing for coexistence of infinitely many strategies is structurally unstable. In particular, this is the case when the \"interaction operator\" which determines how the growth rate of a strategy depends on the strategy distribution of the population is compact. The interaction operator is not assumed to be linear. We investigate a Lotka-Volterra competition model with a linear interaction operator of convolution type separately because the convolution operator is not compact. For this model, we exclude the possibility of robust coexistence supported on the whole real line, or even on a set containing a limit point. Moreover, we exclude coexistence of an infinite set of equidistant strategies when the total population size is finite. On the other hand, for infinite populations it is possible to have robust coexistence in this case. These results are in line with the ecological concept of \"limiting similarity\" of coexisting species. We conclude that the mathematical structure of the ecological coexistence problem itself dictates the discreteness of the species.",
    "title": "On the impossibility of coexistence of infinitely many strategies.",
    "abstract": "A stochastic Lotka-Volterra-type model for the interaction between the preys and the predators in a random environment is investigated. A self-competition mechanism within the prey population itself is also included. The effect of a random environment is modeled as random variations in the birth rate of the preys and the death rate of the predators. The stochastic averaging procedure of Stratonovich and Khasminskii is applied to obtain the probability distributions of the system state variables at the state of statistical stationarity. Asymptotic behaviors of the system variables are discussed, and the mean transition time from an initial state to a critical state is obtained. Effects on the ecosystem behaviors of the self-competition term, of the random variation in the prey birth rate, and of the random variation in the predator death rate are investigated.",
    "title": "Stochastic analysis of the Lotka-Volterra model for ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "Robustness and reproducibility of sequential spatio-temporal responses is an essential feature of many neural circuits in sensory and motor systems of animals. The most common mathematical images of dynamical regimes in neural systems are fixed points, limit cycles, chaotic attractors, and continuous attractors (attractive manifolds of neutrally stable fixed points). These are not suitable for the description of reproducible transient sequential neural dynamics. In this paper we present the concept of a stable heteroclinic sequence (SHS), which is not an attractor. SHS opens the way for understanding and modeling of transient sequential activity in neural circuits. We show that this new mathematical object can be used to describe robust and reproducible sequential neural dynamics. Using the framework of a generalized high-dimensional Lotka-Volterra model, that describes the dynamics of firing rates in an inhibitory network, we present analytical results on the existence of the SHS in the phase space of the network. With the help of numerical simulations we confirm its robustness in presence of noise in spite of the transient nature of the corresponding trajectories. Finally, by referring to several recent neurobiological experiments, we discuss possible applications of this new concept to several problems in neuroscience.",
    "title": "On the origin of reproducible sequential activity in neural circuits.",
    "abstract": "An analytic theory of species abundance patterns (SAPs) in biological networks is presented. The theory is based on multispecies replicator dynamics equivalent to the Lotka-Volterra equation, with diverse interspecies interactions. Various SAPs observed in nature are derived from a single parameter. The abundance distribution is formed like a widely observed left-skewed lognormal distribution. As the model has a general form, the result can be applied to similar patterns in other complex biological networks, e.g., gene expression.",
    "title": "Species abundance patterns in complex evolutionary dynamics.",
    "abstract": "Conventional ecological models show that complexity destabilizes foodwebs, suggesting that foodwebs should have neither large numbers of species nor a large number of interactions. However, in nature the opposite appears to be the case. Here we show that if the interactions between species are allowed to evolve within a generalized Lotka-Volterra model such stabilizing feedbacks and weak interactions emerge automatically. Moreover, we show that trophic levels also emerge spontaneously from the evolutionary approach, and the efficiency of the unperturbed ecosystem increases with time. The key to stability in large foodwebs appears to arise not from complexity per se but from evolution at the level of the ecosystem which favors stabilizing (negative) feedbacks.",
    "title": "Stabilization of large generalized Lotka-Volterra foodwebs by evolutionary feedback.",
    "abstract": "In the framework of Lotka-Volterra dynamics with evolutionary parameter variation, it is shown that a system of two competing species which is evolutionarily unstable, if left to themselves, is stabilized by a common predator preying on both of them. Game-theoretic implications of the results are also discussed.",
    "title": "Suppression of ecological competition by an apex predator.",
    "abstract": "Theoretical interest in the distributions of species abundances observed in ecological communities has focused recently on the results of models that assume all species are identical in their interactions with one another, and rely upon immigration and speciation to promote coexistence. Here we examine a one-trophic level system with generalized species interactions, including species-specific intraspecific and interspecific interaction strengths, and density-independent immigration from a regional species pool. Comparisons between results from numerical integrations and an approximate analytic calculation for random communities demonstrate good agreement, and both approaches yield abundance distributions of nearly arbitrary shape, including bimodality for intermediate immigration rates.",
    "title": "Biodiversity and the Lotka-Volterra theory of species interactions: open systems and the distribution of logarithmic densities.",
    "abstract": "Delphastus catalinae and Serangium japonicum are the important natural enemies of Bemisia tabaci, of which, the former is exotic, and the latter is indigenous. In this paper, the influence of interspecies competition on the population growth of D. catalinae and S. japonicum was studied under conditions of single and mixed rearing, and Lotka-Volterra equation was used to simulate the competition when more and less preys provided for the two ladybirds. The results showed that the population growth of D. catalinae was greater than that of S. japonicum when single rearing, and the population growth of S. japonicum was greater than that of D. catalinae when mixed rearing. In the competition system of the two ladybirds, S. japonicum was dominant, while D. catalinae could exist simultaneously.",
    "title": "[Interactive system of Delphastus catalinae and its competitor: interspecies competition].",
    "abstract": "A tritrophic model of Lotka-Volterra type was developed to describe the dynamics of a unisexual-bisexual complex in fish. The model assumes two genetically isolated forms, bisexual (diploid) and unisexual (triploid), competing for a common resource. The efficiency of food conversion into offspring for the unisexual form is dependent on the availability of the diploid males. By means of isoplane analysis the conditions of a non-trivial equilibrium existence are determined. These conditions imply that the unisexual form should be more fit than the bisexual one in terms of lesser mortality and/or more efficient resource utilization. During field work in the summer of 2001, a unisexual-bisexual complex of spined loach, Cobitis taenia, was found in the Sura River (Mordovia). Analysis of demographic and tropho-dynamic parameters of diploid and triploid forms in this complex suggests that the triploid form, though it does not have the presumed advantage in population fecundity, does have an advantage in survival and consumption rate. The overall ratio between population parameters of the two loach forms indicates that the theoretical condition derived from the model equations is met. Thus, ecological traits of the unisexual and the bisexual forms of spined loach make it possible for them to coexist even under conditions of fully overlapping niches.",
    "title": "Coexistence of triploid and diploid forms of spined loach, Cobitis taenia: a model-based approach.",
    "abstract": "Basic Lotka-Volterra type models in which mutualism (a type of symbiosis where the two populations benefit both) is taken into account, may give unbounded solutions. We exclude such behaviour using explicit mass balances and study the consequences of symbiosis for the long-term dynamic behaviour of a three species system, two prey and one predator species in the chemostat. We compose a theoretical food web where a predator feeds on two prey species that have a symbiotic relationships. In addition to a species-specific resource, the two prey populations consume the products of the partner population as well. In turn, a common predator forages on these prey populations. The temporal change in the biomass and the nutrient densities in the reactor is described by ordinary differential equations (ODE). Since products are recycled, the dynamics of these abiotic materials must be taken into account as well, and they are described by odes in a similar way as the abiotic nutrients. We use numerical bifurcation analysis to assess the long-term dynamic behaviour for varying degrees of symbiosis. Attractors can be equilibria, limit cycles and chaotic attractors depending on the control parameters of the chemostat reactor. These control parameters that can be experimentally manipulated are the nutrient density of the inflow medium and the dilution rate. Bifurcation diagrams for the three species web with a facultative symbiotic association between the two prey populations, are similar to that of a bi-trophic food chain; nutrient enrichment leads to oscillatory behaviour. Predation combined with obligatory symbiotic prey-interactions has a stabilizing effect, that is, there is stable coexistence in a larger part of the parameter space than for a bi-trophic food chain. However, combined with a large growth rate of the predator, the food web can persist only in a relatively small region of the parameter space. Then, two zero-pair bifurcation points are the organizing centers. In each of these points, in addition to a tangent, transcritical and Hopf bifurcation a global heteroclinic bifurcation is emanating. This heteroclinic cycle connects two saddle equilibria where the predator is absent. Under parameter variation the period of the stable limit cycle goes to infinity and the cycle tends to the heteroclinic cycle. At this global bifurcation point this cycle breaks and the boundary of the basin of attraction disappears abruptly because the separatrix disappears together with the cycle. As a result, it becomes possible that a stable two-nutrient-two-prey population system becomes unstable by invasion of a predator and eventually the predator goes extinct together with the two prey populations, that is, the complete food web is destroyed. This is a form of over-exploitation by the predator population of the two symbiotic prey populations. When obligatory symbiotic prey-interactions are modelled with Liebig's minimum law, where growth is limited by the most limiting resource, more complicated types of bifurcations are found. This results from the fact that the Jacobian matrix changes discontinuously with respect to a varying parameter when another resource becomes most limiting.",
    "title": "Consequences of symbiosis for food web dynamics.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the long-term web structure emerging in evolutionary food web models when different types of functional responses are used. We find that large and complex webs with several trophic layers arise only if the population dynamics is such that it allows predators to focus on their best prey species. This can be achieved using modified Lotka-Volterra or Holling/Beddington functional responses with effective couplings that depend on the predator's efficiency at exploiting the prey, or a ratio-dependent functional response with adaptive foraging. In contrast, if standard Lotka-Volterra or Holling/Beddington functional responses are used, long-term evolution generates webs with almost all species being basal, and with additionally many links between these species. Interestingly, in all cases studied, a large proportion of weak links result naturally from the evolution of the food webs.",
    "title": "The impact of nonlinear functional responses on the long-term evolution of food web structure.",
    "abstract": "We study a model of a multispecies ecosystem described by Lotka-Volterra-like equations. Interactions among species form a network whose evolution is determined by the dynamics of the model. Numerical simulations show power-law distribution of intervals between extinctions, but only for ecosystems with sufficient variability of species and with networks of connectivity above certain threshold that is very close to the percolation threshold of the network. The effect of slow environmental changes on extinction dynamics, degree distribution of the network of interspecies interactions, and some emergent properties of our model are also examined.",
    "title": "Extinction dynamics of Lotka-Volterra ecosystems on evolving networks.",
    "abstract": "A symbiotic ecosystem is studied by means of the Lotka-Volterra stochastic model, using the generalized Verhulst self-regulation. The effect of fluctuating environment on the carrying capacity of a population is taken into account as dichotomous noise. The study is a follow-up of our investigation of symbiotic ecosystems subjected to three-level (trichotomous) noise [Phys. Rev. E 65, 051108 (2002)]]. Relying on the mean-field theory, an exact self-consistency equation for stationary states is derived. In some cases the mean field exhibits hysteresis as a function of noise parameters. It is established that random interactions with the environment can cause discontinuous transitions. The dependence of the critical coupling strengths on the noise parameters is found and illustrated by phase diagrams. Predictions from the mean-field theory are compared with the results of numerical simulations. Our results provide a possible scenario for catastrophic shifts of population sizes observed in nature.",
    "title": "Colored-noise-induced discontinuous transitions in symbiotic ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "In this paper, the dynamic behaviour of a classical periodic Lotka-Volterra competing system with impulsive effect is investigated. By applying the Floquet theory of linear periodic impulsive equations, some conditions are obtained for the linear stability of the trivial and semi-trivial periodic solutions. It is proved that the system can be permanent if all the trivial and semi-trivial periodic solutions are linearly unstable. We use standard bifurcation theory to show the existence of nontrivial periodic solutions which arise near the semi-trivial periodic solution. As an application, a fish harvest problem is considered. We explain how two competing species, one of which in a periodic environment without impulsive effect would be doomed to extinction, can coexist with suitably periodic impulsive harvesting.",
    "title": "The periodic competing Lotka-Volterra model with impulsive effect.",
    "abstract": "Noise, through its interaction with the nonlinearity of the living systems, can give rise to counter-intuitive phenomena such as stochastic resonance, noise-delayed extinction, temporal oscillations, and spatial patterns. In this paper we briefly review the noise-induced effects in three different ecosystems: (i) two competing species; (ii) three interacting species, one predator and two preys, and (iii) N-interacting species. The transient dynamics of these ecosystems are analyzed through generalized Lotka-Volterra equations in the presence of multiplicative noise, which models the interaction between the species and the environment. The interaction parameter between the species is random in cases (i) and (iii), and a periodical function, which accounts for the environmental temperature, in case (ii). We find noise-induced phenomena such as quasi-deterministic oscillations, stochastic resonance, noise-delayed extinction, and noise-induced pattern formation with nonmonotonic behaviors of patterns areas and of the density correlation as a function of the multiplicative noise intensity. The asymptotic behavior of the time average of the i(th) population when the ecosystem is composed of a great number of interacting species is obtained and the effect of the noise on the asymptotic probability distributions of the populations is discussed.",
    "title": "Noise in ecosystems: a short review.",
    "abstract": "Empirical studies have shown that, in real ecosystems, species-interaction strengths are generally skewed in their distribution towards weak interactions. Some theoretical work also suggests that weak interactions, especially in omnivorous links, are important for the local stability of a community at equilibrium. However, the majority of theoretical studies use uniform distributions of interaction strengths to generate artificial communities for study. We investigate the effects of the underlying interaction-strength distribution upon the return time, permanence and feasibility of simple Lotka-Volterra equilibrium communities. We show that a skew towards weak interactions promotes local and global stability only when omnivory is present. It is found that skewed interaction strengths are an emergent property of stable omnivorous communities, and that this skew towards weak interactions creates a dynamic constraint maintaining omnivory. Omnivory is more likely to occur when omnivorous interactions are skewed towards weak interactions. However, a skew towards weak interactions increases the return time to equilibrium, delays the recovery of ecosystems and hence decreases the stability of a community. When no skew is imposed, the set of stable omnivorous communities shows an emergent distribution of skewed interaction strengths. Our results apply to both local and global concepts of stability and are robust to the definition of a feasible community. These results are discussed in the light of empirical data and other theoretical studies, in conjunction with their broader implications for community assembly.",
    "title": "Weak interactions, omnivory and emergent food-web properties.",
    "abstract": "We numerically show that the lattice Lotka-Volterra model, when realized on a square lattice support, gives rise to a finite production, per unit time, of the nonextensive entropy S(q)=(1- summation operator (i)p(q)(i))/(q-1) (S(1)=- summation operator (i)p(i) ln p(i)). This finiteness only occurs for q=0.5 for the d=2 growth mode (growing droplet), and for q=0 for the d=1 one (growing stripe). This strong evidence of nonextensivity is consistent with the spontaneous emergence of local domains of identical particles with fractal boundaries and competing interactions. Such direct evidence is, to our knowledge, exhibited for the first time for a many-body system which, at the mean field level, is conservative.",
    "title": "Nonextensivity of the cyclic lattice Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "The interactions between species are unlikely to be randomly arranged, and there is increasing evidence that most interactions occur within small species sub-groups, or compartments, that do not strongly interact with one another. We examine whether arranging the interactions of a competitive system into compartments influences the system properties of linear stability, feasibility, reactivity, and biomass stability, thereby altering the likelihood of species persistence. Model Lotka-Volterra systems of diffuse competition were analysed with interactions arranged randomly and in compartments. It was found, using a variety of dynamical measures, that arranging interactions into compartments enhances the likelihood of species persistence. Since many natural competitive systems appear to have interactions arranged within compartments, this may be an outcome of the positive attributes that this form of organization offers.",
    "title": "The effects of interaction compartments on stability for competitive systems.",
    "abstract": "We use a scaling procedure based on averaging Poisson distributed random variables to derive population level models from local models of interactions between individuals. The procedure is suggested by using the idea of hydrodynamic limits to derive reaction-diffusion models for population interactions from interacting particle systems. The scaling procedure is formal in the sense that we do not address the issue of proving that it converges; instead we focus on methods for computing the results of the scaling or deriving properties of rescaled systems. To that end we treat the scaling procedure as a transform, in analogy with the Laplace or Fourier transform, and derive operational formulas to aid in the computation of rescaled systems or the derivation of their properties. Since the limiting procedure is adapted from work by Durrett and Levin, we refer to the transform as the Durrett-Levin transform. We examine the effects of rescaling in various standard models, including Lotka-Volterra models, Holling type predator-prey models, and ratio-dependent models. The effects of scaling are mostly quantitative in models with smooth interaction terms, but ratio-dependent models are profoundly affected by the scaling. The scaling transforms ratio-dependent terms that are singular at the origin into smooth terms. Removing the singularity at the origin eliminates some of the unique dynamics that can arise in ratio-dependent models.",
    "title": "Deriving reaction-diffusion models in ecology from interacting particle systems.",
    "abstract": "The tilting mechanism, which generates differential rotation in two-dimensional turbulent convection, is shown to produce relaxation oscillations in the mean flow energy integral and bursts in the global fluctuation level, akin to Lotka-Volterra oscillations. The basic reason for such behavior is the unidirectional and conservative transfer of kinetic energy from the fluctuating motions to the mean component of the flows, and its dissipation at large scales. Results from numerical simulations further demonstrate the intimate relation between these low-frequency modulations and the large-scale intermittency of convective turbulence, as manifested by exponential tails in single-point probability distribution functions. Moreover, the spatio-temporal evolution of convective structures illustrates the mechanism triggering avalanche events in the transport process. The latter involves the overlap of delocalized mixing regions when the barrier to transport, produced by the mean component of the flow, transiently disappears.",
    "title": "Bursting and large-scale intermittency in turbulent convection with differential rotation.",
    "abstract": "Stability criteria have recently been developed for coevolutionary Lotka-Volterra systems where individual fitness functions are assumed to be linear in the population state. We extend these criteria as part of a general theory of coevolution (that combines effects of ecology and evolution) based on arbitrary (i.e. nonlinear) fitness functions and a finite number of individual phenotypes. The central role of the stationary density surface where species' densities are at equilibrium is emphasized. In particular, for monomorphic resident systems, it is shown coevolutionary stability is equivalent to ecological stability combined with evolutionary stability on the stationary density surface. Also discussed is how our theory relates to recent treatments of phenotypic coevolution via adaptive dynamics when there is a continuum of individual phenotypes.",
    "title": "Stability in N-species coevolutionary systems.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of single populations up to ecosystems, are often described by one or a set of non-linear ordinary differential equations. In this paper we review the use of bifurcation theory to analyse these non-linear dynamical systems. Bifurcation analysis gives regimes in the parameter space with quantitatively different asymptotic dynamic behaviour of the system. In small-scale systems the underlying models for the populations and their interaction are simple Lotka-Volterra models or more elaborated models with more biological detail. The latter ones are more difficult to analyse, especially when the number of populations is large. Therefore for large-scale systems the Lotka-Volterra equations are still popular despite the limited realism. Various approaches are discussed in which the different time-scale of ecological and evolutionary biological processes are considered together.",
    "title": "Numerical bifurcation analysis of ecosystems in a spatially homogeneous environment.",
    "abstract": "A self-similar hierarchical solution that is both dynamically and evolutionarily stable is found for the multidimensional Lotka-Volterra equation with a single chain of prey-predator relations. This gives a simple and natural explanation to the key features of hierarchical ecosystems, such as its ubiquity, pyramidal population distribution, and higher aggressiveness among higher trophic levels.",
    "title": "Evolutionary stability of ecological hierarchy.",
    "abstract": "Dynamical patterns, in the form of consecutive moving stripes or rings, are shown to develop spontaneously in the cyclic lattice Lotka-Volterra model, when realized on square lattice, at the reaction limited regime. Each stripe consists of different particles (species) and the borderlines between consecutive stripes are fractal. The interface width w between the different species scales as w(L,t) approximately L(alpha)f(t/L(z)), where L is the linear size of the interface, t is the time, and alpha and z are the static and dynamical critical exponents, respectively. The critical exponents were computed as alpha=0.49+/-0.03 and z=1.53+/-0.13 and the propagating fronts show dynamical characteristics similar to those of the Eden growth models.",
    "title": "Spontaneous formation of dynamical patterns with fractal fronts in the cyclic lattice Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "In the presence of prey, the marine mollusk Clione limacina exhibits search behavior, i.e., circular motions whose plane and radius change in a chaotic-like manner. We have formulated a dynamical model of the chaotic hunting behavior of Clione based on physiological in vivo and in vitro experiments. The model includes a description of the action of the cerebral hunting interneuron on the receptor neurons of the gravity sensory organ, the statocyst. A network of six receptor model neurons with Lotka-Volterra-type dynamics and nonsymmetric inhibitory interactions has no simple static attractors that correspond to winner take all phenomena. Instead, the winnerless competition induced by the hunting neuron displays hyperchaos with two positive Lyapunov exponents. The origin of the chaos is related to the interaction of two clusters of receptor neurons that are described with two heteroclinic loops in phase space. We hypothesize that the chaotic activity of the receptor neurons can drive the complex behavior of Clione observed during hunting. (c) 2002 American Institute of Physics.",
    "title": "Winnerless competition between sensory neurons generates chaos: A possible mechanism for molluscan hunting behavior.",
    "abstract": "For the majority of species, per capita growth rate correlates negatively with population density. Although the popular logistic equation for the growth of a single species incorporates this intraspecific competition, multi-trophic models often ignore self-limitation of the consumers. Instead, these models often assume that the predator-prey interactions are purely exploitative, employing simple Lotka-Volterra forms in which consumer species lack intraspecific competition terms. Here we show that intraspecific interference competition can account for the stable coexistence of many consumer species on a single resource in a homogeneous environment. In addition, our work suggests a potential mechanism for field observations demonstrating that habitat area and resource productivity strongly positively correlate to biodiversity. In the special case of a modified Lotka-Volterra model describing multiple predators competing for a single resource, we present an ordering procedure that determines the deterministic fate of each specific consumer. Moreover, we find that the growth rate of a resource species is proportional to the maximum number of consumer species that resource can support. In the limiting case, when the resource growth rate is infinite, a model with intraspecific interference reduces to the conventional Lotka-Volterra competition model where there can be an unlimited number of coexisting consumers. This highlights the crucial role that resource growth rates may play in promoting coexistence of consumer species.",
    "title": "Biodiversity, habitat area, resource growth rate and interference competition.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra model of population ecology, which assumes all individuals in each species behave identically, is combined with the behavioral evolution model of evolutionary game theory. In the resultant monomorphic situation, conditions for the stability of the resident Lotka-Volterra system, when perturbed by a mutant phenotype in each species, are analysed. We develop an evolutionary ecology stability concept, called a monomorphic evolutionarily stable ecological equilibrium, which contains as a special case the original definition by Maynard Smith of an evolutionarily stable strategy for a single species. Heuristically, the concept asserts that the resident ecological system must be stable as well as the phenotypic evolution on the \"stationary density surface\". The conditions are also shown to be central to analyse stability issues in the polymorphic model that allows arbitrarily many phenotypes in each species, especially when the number of species is small. The mathematical techniques are from the theory of dynamical systems, including linearization, centre manifolds and Molchanov's Theorem.",
    "title": "Evolutionary stability in Lotka-Volterra systems.",
    "abstract": "We investigate the transition to synchronization in ensembles of coupled oscillators with quenched disorder. We find that small coupling is able to increase the frequency disorder and to induce a spread of oscillator frequencies. This new effect of anomalous desynchronization is studied with numerical and analytical means in a large class of systems including R\u00f6ssler, Lotka-Volterra, Landau-Stuart, and Van-der-Pol oscillators. We show that anomalous effects arise due to an interplay between nonisochronicity and natural frequency of each oscillator and can either increase or inhibit synchronization in the ensemble. This provides a novel possibility to control the synchronization transition in nonidentical systems by suitably distributing the disorder among system parameters. We conjecture that our results are of relevance for biological systems.",
    "title": "Using nonisochronicity to control synchronization in ensembles of nonidentical oscillators.",
    "abstract": "The author has recently proposed and investigated models for the study of interacting species subject to an additional factor, a disease spreading among one of them, that somehow affects the other one. The inadequacy of such a model comes from the basic assumption on the interacting species. It is well known that the cycles found in the Lotka-Volterra system exhibit a neutral stability, and this phenomenon is carried over to the proposed model. Here we would like to extend the study to account for population dynamics leading to carrying capacities, i.e. logistic behaviour. This corresponds to the so-called quadratic predator-prey models found in the literature. We are able to show that in some cases the trajectories are bounded, and also analyse the local stability of some equilibria.",
    "title": "Epidemics in predator-prey models: disease in the predators.",
    "abstract": "The richness and complexity of recurrent cortical circuits is an inexhaustible source of inspiration for thinking about high-level biological computation. In past theoretical studies, constraints on the synaptic connection patterns of threshold-linear networks were found that guaranteed bounded network dynamics, convergence to attractive fixed points, and multistability, all fundamental aspects of cortical information processing. However, these conditions were only sufficient, and it remained unclear which were the minimal (necessary) conditions for convergence and multistability. We show that symmetric threshold-linear networks converge to a set of attractive fixed points if and only if the network matrix is copositive. Furthermore, the set of attractive fixed points is nonconnected (the network is multiattractive) if and only if the network matrix is not positive semidefinite. There are permitted sets of neurons that can be coactive at a stable steady state and forbidden sets that cannot. Permitted sets are clustered in the sense that subsets of permitted sets are permitted and supersets of forbidden sets are forbidden. By viewing permitted sets as memories stored in the synaptic connections, we provide a formulation of long-term memory that is more general than the traditional perspective of fixed-point attractor networks. There is a close correspondence between threshold-linear networks and networks defined by the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations.",
    "title": "Permitted and forbidden sets in symmetric threshold-linear networks.",
    "abstract": "We propose a minimal model of the dynamics of diversity-replicator equations with extinction, invasion and mutation. We numerically study the behavior of this simple model and show that it displays completely different behavior from the conventional replicator equation and the generalized Lotka-Volterra equation. We reach several significant conclusions as follows: (1) a complex ecosystem can emerge when mutants with respect to species-specific interaction are introduced; (2) such an ecosystem possesses strong resistance to invasion; (3) a typical fixation process of mutants is realized through the rapid growth of a group of mutualistic mutants with higher fitness than majority species; (4) a hierarchical taxonomic structure (like family-genus-species) emerges; and (5) the relative abundance of species exhibits a typical pattern widely observed in nature. Several implications of these results are discussed in connection with the relationship of the present model to the generalized Lotka-Volterra equation.",
    "title": "Emergence of a complex and stable network in a model ecosystem with extinction and mutation.",
    "abstract": "We consider a reaction-diffusion system for spatial spread of pest resistance to host plant resistance genes which is based on the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey equations, with logistic growth of the resource level and a diffusion term added to account for spatial spread of the pest. The model is phenotype specific, in which a pest subpopulation's fitness comes down to a balance between its resource assimilation rate and its respiration rate. We derive an expression for the rate of spatial spread of the resistant pest types from an initial point source, and discuss its relevance for adaptive pest resistance management strategies. Using results for an analogous single-species reaction-diffusion model in heterogeneous media, we consider the likely impact of pest-susceptible plant refugia on the speed of the travelling wave of resistant pests, and simultaneously the expected trade-off, in terms of crop yield decrease, when refugia are included. We also explore the possibility that resistance breaking by the pest population is not an inevitable phenomenon, particularly when refugia of the appropriate size are used.",
    "title": "Travelling waves of resistance in a bi-trophic pest adaptation model.",
    "abstract": "Two types of numerical response function have evolved since Solomon first introduced the term to generalize features of Lotka-Volterra predator-prey models: (i) the demographic numerical response, which links change in consumer demographic rates to food availability; and (ii) the isocline numerical response, which links consumer abundance per se to food availability. These numerical responses are interchangeable because both recognize negative feedback loops between consumer and food abundance resulting in population regulation. We review how demographic and isocline numerical responses have been used to enhance our understanding of population regulation of kangaroos and possums, and argue that their utility may be increased by explicitly accounting for non-equilibrium dynamics (due to environmental variability and/or biological interactions) and the existence of multiple limiting factors. Interferential numerical response functions may help bridge three major historical dichotomies in population ecology (equilibrium versus non-equilibrium dynamics, extrinsic versus intrinsic regulation and demographic versus isocline numerical responses).",
    "title": "The numerical response: rate of increase and food limitation in herbivores and predators.",
    "abstract": "Darwinian evolution is based on three fundamental principles, reproduction, mutation and selection, which describe how populations change over time and how new forms evolve out of old ones. There are numerous mathematical descriptions of the resulting evolutionary dynamics. In this paper, we show that apparently very different formulations are part of a single unified framework. At the center of this framework is the equivalence between the replicator-mutator equation and the Price equation. From these equations, we obtain as special cases adaptive dynamics, evolutionary game dynamics, the Lotka-Volterra equation of ecology and the quasispecies equation of molecular evolution.",
    "title": "Unifying evolutionary dynamics.",
    "abstract": "One crucial measure of a species' invasiveness is the rate at which it spreads into a competitor's environment. A heuristic spread rate formula for a spatially explicit, two-species competition model relies on 'linear determinacy' which equates spread rate in the full nonlinear model with spread rate in the system linearized about the leading edge of the invasion. However, linear determinacy is not always valid for two-species competition; it has been shown numerically that the formula only works for certain values of model parameters when the model is diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition [2]. This paper derives a set of sufficient conditions for linear determinacy in spatially explicit two-species competition models. These conditions can be interpreted as requiring sufficiently large dispersal of the invader relative to dispersal of the out-competed resident and sufficiently weak interactions between the resident and the invader. When these conditions are not satisfied, spread rate may exceed linearly determined predictions. The mathematical methods rely on the application of results established in a companion paper [11].",
    "title": "Spreading speed and linear determinacy for two-species competition models.",
    "abstract": "The dynamics of generalized Lotka-Volterra systems is studied by theoretical techniques and computer simulations. These systems describe the time evolution of the wealth distribution of individuals in a society, as well as of the market values of firms in the stock market. The individual wealths or market values are given by a set of time dependent variables w(i), i=1,...,N. The equations include a stochastic autocatalytic term (representing investments), a drift term (representing social security payments), and a time dependent saturation term (due to the finite size of the economy). The w(i)'s turn out to exhibit a power-law distribution of the form P(w) approximately w(-1-alpha). It is shown analytically that the exponent alpha can be expressed as a function of one parameter, which is the ratio between the constant drift component (social security) and the fluctuating component (investments). This result provides a link between the lower and upper cutoffs of this distribution, namely, between the resources available to the poorest and those available to the richest in a given society. The value of alpha is found to be insensitive to variations in the saturation term, which represent the expansion or contraction of the economy. The results are of much relevance to empirical studies that show that the distribution of the individual wealth in different countries during different periods in the 20th century has followed a power-law distribution with 1<alpha<2.",
    "title": "Theoretical analysis and simulations of the generalized Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra model of neural networks, derived from the membrane dynamics of competing neurons, have found successful applications in many \"winner-take-all\" types of problems. This paper studies the dynamic stability properties of general Lotka-Volterra recurrent neural networks with delays. Conditions for nondivergence of the neural networks are derived. These conditions are based on local inhibition of networks, thereby allowing these networks to possess a multistability property. Multistability is a necessary property of a network that will enable important neural computations such as those governing the decision making process. Under these nondivergence conditions, a compact set that globally attracts all the trajectories of a network can be computed explicitly. If the connection weight matrix of a network is symmetric in some sense, and the delays of the network are in L2 space, we can prove that the network will have the property of complete stability.",
    "title": "Dynamic stability conditions for Lotka-Volterra recurrent neural networks with delays.",
    "abstract": "At carrying capacity, small advantages in competitive ability can compensate a sexual population for its two-fold disadvantage in growth capacity when facing invasion by asexual mutants. In this paper, we develop a generic analytical model to consider the ecology of a sexual population comprising equal numbers of males and females, competing for shared prey resources with multiple female-only clones. We assume that the clones arise from the sexual population and are distinguished from it only by having narrower resource niches and twice the growth capacity. For sexual populations, at density-dependent carrying capacity, intra-specific competition between clonal individuals prevents them from realizing their two-fold advantage in intrinsic growth. This prediction leads to three novel outcomes: (i) a sexual population can coexist with any number of clones, provided their combined competitive impact remains less than the impact of the clones on each other; (ii) a sexual species can immediately exclude asexual invaders if it is a fast growing and strong competitor of shared resources and also has refuge in an abundant alternative resource; (iii) the rate of accumulation of clones in a sexual population will be slowed by intra and inter-specific competition amongst the clones themselves, in addition to the competitive impact from the original sexual population.",
    "title": "A lotka-volterra model of coexistence between a sexual population and multiple asexual clones.",
    "abstract": "Conventional models of population dynamics of biological species do not take into account the fact that activity of most living organisms is under control of biological clocks, which are oscillators with periods near 1 day, 1 year, and so on. Here proposed are new categories of population dynamics models which are combinations of Lotka-Volterra type of equations (as a simplest example; in fact, an arbitrary type may be used) and equations of the biological oscillators. Such models may be particularly useful in addressing to those problems which are inaccessible with conventional models. A simple example of such models with distributed clock periods is proposed and studied numerically and analytically to consider why periods of biological rhythms are not precisely one day or one year, etc., as is often questioned. For this purpose, a notion of survival index is introduced to measure the degree of success in survival. It turns out that clock periods equal or close to that of the milieu are not necessarily advantageous for survival and can even lead to extinction; survival is then most successful at the edge of entrainment. This may provide a clue to answer the question. It is also found that survival is difficult for those species which cannot be entrained by the environmental cycle.",
    "title": "Population dynamics of clock-controlled biological species: models and why circadian rhythms are circadian.",
    "abstract": "To address how species interactions, dispersal and environmental disturbances interplay to affect the spatial distribution and diversity of species, we present a compartment model in which multiple species undergo competitive interaction of Lotka-Volterra type in a patchy environment arranged in a square lattice. Dispersal of species occurs between adjacent patches. Disturbances are periodically imposed on a central part of the environment in a belt-like block or an island-like block of various sizes where each species is killed for a certain time interval and then allowed to recover for the rest of a disturbance cycle. We deal with a case in which the local population dynamics within each patch is analytically determinable and has multiple locally stable equilibrium states in the absence of environmental disturbance. We further assume a trade-off between the reproductive rate of species and its dispersal ability. With these settings, we numerically examine how the spatio-temporal distributions of species are affected by changes in the pattern, size and duration of disturbances. The results demonstrate that: (1) in the undisturbed area, environmental disturbances could generate spatially segregated distributions of species; (2) in the disturbed area, species with higher dispersal abilities quickly invade and preferentially recover their population during the post-disturbance period, being temporarily relieved of competition from other species. These mechanisms collectively lead to increased species diversity in the whole habitat, functioning best when both the size and duration of disturbances are intermediate. In particular, the belt-like disturbance is more effective than the island-like disturbance in sustaining spatial heterogeneity for a wider range of duration of disturbance.",
    "title": "Recurrent habitat disturbance and species diversity in a multiple-competitive species system.",
    "abstract": "It is a mainstay of community ecology that local exclusion of species will result if competitive pressures become too large. The pattern of exclusion may be complicated, but the qualitative orthodoxy has changed little since the pioneering work of Lotka, Volterra, and Gause--no two species can occupy the same niche. Stated in a more precise form, the higher the intensity of interspecific competition in an assemblage of species, the fewer the number of species that can coexist in perpetuity. We suggest that this orthodoxy results from \"linear\" thinking, and that if the classical equations are formulated more realistically with attendant nonlinearities, the orthodoxy breaks down and higher levels of competition may actually increase the likelihood that species will avoid competitive exclusion. Furthermore, this increased probability of coexistence at higher levels of competition is accompanied by characteristic dynamic patterns: (i) at lower levels of competition, after all extinction events have occurred, remaining species follow irregular chaotic patterns; (ii) at higher levels of competition, when most species coexist, all species are entrained in a single large limit cycle; (iii) the transient behavior appears to correspond to a special case of chaos, uniform phase chaotic amplitude.",
    "title": "Increased competition may promote species coexistence.",
    "abstract": "Recent investigations on the structure of complex networks have provided interesting results for ecologists. Being inspired by these studies, we analyse a well-defined set of small model food webs. The extinction probability caused by internal Lotka-Volterra dynamics is compared to the position of species. Simulations have revealed that some global properties of these food webs (e.g. the homogeneity of connectedness) and the positions of species therein (e.g. interaction pattern) make them prone to modelled biotic extinction caused by population dynamical effects. We found that: (a) homogeneity in the connectedness structure increases the probability of extinction events; (b) in addition to the number of interactions, their orientations also influence the future of species in a web. Since species in characteristic network positions are prone to extinction, results could also be interpreted as describing the properties of preferred states of food webs during community assembly. Our results may contribute to understanding the intimate relationship between pattern and process in ecology.",
    "title": "Species positions and extinction dynamics in simple food webs.",
    "abstract": "The paper is concerned with a toy model that generalizes the standard Lotka-Volterra equation for a certain population by introducing a competition between instantaneous and accumulative, history-dependent nonlinear feedback the origin of which could be a contribution from any kind of mismanagement in the past. The results depend on the sign of that additional cumulative loss or gain term of strength lambda. In case of a positive coupling the system offers a maximum gain achieved after a finite time but the population will die out in the long time limit. In this case the instantaneous loss term of strength u is irrelevant and the model exhibits an exact solution. In the opposite case lambda<0 the time evolution of the system is terminated in a crash after t(s) provided u=0. This singularity after a finite time can be avoided if u not equal to 0. The approach may well be of relevance for the qualitative understanding of more realistic descriptions.",
    "title": "Evolution model with a cumulative feedback coupling.",
    "abstract": "An N-species Lotka-Volterra stochastic model of a symbiotic ecological system with the Verhulst self-regulation mechanism is considered. The effect of fluctuating environment on the carrying capacity of a population is modeled as the colored three-level Markovian (trichotomous) noise. In the framework of the mean-field theory an explicit self-consistency equation for stationary states is presented. Stability and instability conditions and colored-noise-induced discontinuous transitions (catastrophic shifts) in the model are investigated. In some cases the mean field exhibits hysteresis as a function of the noise parameters. It is shown that the occurrence of catastrophic shifts can be controlled by noise parameters, such as correlation time, amplitude, and flatness. The dependence of the critical coupling strengths on the noise parameters is found and illustrated by phase diagrams. Implications of the results on some modifications of the model are discussed.",
    "title": "Trichotomous-noise-induced catastrophic shifts in symbiotic ecosystems.",
    "abstract": "A version of the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model with logistic crop growth is modified to explore the rate of adaptation of a herbivore to a pest-resistant crop. This provides a phenotypic model for the evolution of resistance in a population comprising three different pest types each defined by differing parameter values for respiration rate and crop palatability. Expressions estimating the rates of increase of the fitter pest types are obtained as a function of the food qualities, and respiration and mortality rates. Potential strategies for delaying the rate of adaptation with regard to the expressions derived above, via the use of pest-susceptible refugia and natural enemies, are discussed. Although the model is formulated as one in which a single gene is the factor conferring resistance it can be interpreted and used independently of this.",
    "title": "Bi-trophic mathematical model for pest adaptation to a resistant crop.",
    "abstract": "Time delays produced by dispersal are shown to stabilize Lotka-Volterra predator-prey models. The models are formulated as integrodifferential equations that describe local predator-prey dynamics and either intrapatch or interpatch dispersal. Dispersing individuals may (or may not) differ in the duration of their trips; these differences are captured via a distributed delay in the models. Our results include those of previous studies as special cases and show that the stabilizing effect continues to operate when the dispersal process is modeled more realistically.",
    "title": "Stabilizing dispersal delays in predator-prey metapopulation models.",
    "abstract": "We consider a four-species model based on competition and show that the whole four-species system collapses to a definite single species equilibrium at its carrying capacity. To do so, we use the results of Hirsch, Van Den Driessche and Zeeman, Hofbauer and Sigmund, and the product theorem of the Conley connection matrix theory by Mischaikow and Reineck.",
    "title": "A Lotka-Volterra competition model and its global convergence to a definite axial equilibrium.",
    "abstract": "The nature of and conditions for permanent coexistence of consumers and resources are characterized in a family of models that generalize MacArthur's consumer-resource model. The generalization is of the resource dynamics, which need not be of Lotka-Volterra form but are subject only to certain restrictions loose enough to admit many resource dynamics of biological interest. For any such model, (1) if there is an interior equilibrium, then it is globally attracting, else some boundary equilibrium is globally attracting-thus permanent coexistence is coexistence at a globally attracting equilibrium; (2) there is an interior equilibrium if and only if for any species, the equilibrium approached in the absence of that species and the presence of the others is invasible by that species--thus permanent coexistence is equivalent to mutual invasibility; (3) for resources without direct interactions, the conditions for permanent coexistence of the consumers admit an instructive formulation in terms of regression statistics. The significance and limitations of the models and results are discussed.",
    "title": "Coexistence in MacArthur-style consumer-resource models.",
    "abstract": "A modification of the Lotka-Volterra model was proposed. The modification takes into account the factor of seasonal fluctuations in a \"predator-prey\" model. In this modification, interactions between species in summer are described by the Lotka-Volterra equations; in winter, individuals of both species extinct. This generalization makes the classic model unrough, which substantially extends the field of its application. The results of numerical simulation illustrate the statement formulated above.",
    "title": "[Analysis of seasonal fluctuations in the Lotka-Volterra model].",
    "abstract": "In this work we present a predator-prey model that incorporates individual behavior of the predators. A classical Lotka-Volterra model with self-limiting prey describes the predator-prey interaction. Predator individuals can use two behavioral tactics to dispute a prey when they meet, the classical hawk and dove tactics. Each individual can use both tactics along its life. The predator behavioral change is described by means of a game dynamic model based upon the replicator equations, where the gain depends on prey density. We assume that the demographic process, predator-prey interactions, acts at a slow time scale in comparison with the evolution of the behavior of the predator population. The existence of two time scales allows studying the complete system from a reduced one, which describes the dynamics of the total predator and prey densities at the slow time scale. The aim of this work is to study the effects of individual predator behavior on the dynamics of the predator-prey system. The main conclusion that emerges from this study is the existence of a relationship between prey density and the strategy adopted by predators: aggressive behavior is connected to high prey and low predator densities, whereas a polymorphism dove-hawk is found at low prey and high predator densities.",
    "title": "A predator-prey model with predators using hawk and dove tactics.",
    "abstract": "Classical Lotka-Volterra (LV) model for oscillatory behavior of population sizes of two interacting species (predator-prey or parasite-host pairs) is conservative. This may imply unrealistically high sensitivity of the system's behavior to environmental variations. Thus, a generalized LV model is considered with the equation for preys' reproduction containing the following additional terms: quadratic \"damping\" term that accounts for interspecies competition, and term with white-noise random variations of the preys' reproduction factor that simulates the environmental variations. An exact solution is obtained for the corresponding Fokker-Planck-Kolmogorov equation for stationary probability densities (PDF's) of the population sizes. It shows that both population sizes are independent gamma-distributed stationary random processes. Increasing level of the environmental variations does not lead to extinction of the populations. However it may lead to an intermittent behavior, whereby one or both population sizes experience very rare and violent short pulses or outbreaks while remaining on a very low level most of the time. This intermittency is described analytically by direct use of the solutions for the PDF's as well as by applying theory of excursions of random functions and by predicting PDF of peaks in the predators' population size.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra system in a random environment.",
    "abstract": "There is a widespread opinion among ecologists that ecology lacks general laws. In this paper the author argues that this opinion is mistaken. Taking the case of population dynamics, the author points out that there are several very general law-like propositions that provide the theoretical basis for most population dynamics models that were developed to address specific issues. Some of these foundational principles, like the law of exponential growth, are logically very similar to certain law of physics (Newton's law of intertia, for example, is almost a direct analogue of exponential growth). The author discusses two other principles (population self-limitation and resource-consumer oscillations), as well as the more elementary postulates that underlie them. None of the \"laws\" that the author proposes for population ecology are new. Collectively ecologists have been using these general principles in guiding development of their models and experiments since the days of Lotka, Volterra, and Gause.",
    "title": "[Does population ecology have general laws?].",
    "abstract": "We analyse the adaptive dynamics of a generalised type of Lotka-Volterra model subject to an explicit trade-off between two parameters. A simple expression for the fitness of a mutant strategy in an environment determined by the established, resident strategy is obtained leading to general results for the position of the evolutionary singular strategy and the associated second-order partial derivatives of the mutant fitness with respect to the mutant and resident strategies. Combinations of these results can be used to determine the evolutionary behaviour of the system. The theory is motivated by an example of prey evolution in a predator-prey system in which results show that only (non-EUS) evolutionary repellor dynamics, where evolution is directed away from a singular strategy, or dynamics where the singular strategy is an evolutionary attractor, are possible. Moreover, the general theory can be used to show that these results are the only possibility for all Lotka-Volterra systems in which aside from the trade-offs all parameters are independent and in which the interaction terms are of quadratic order or less. The applicability of the theory is highlighted by examining the evolution of an intermediate predator in a tri-trophic model.",
    "title": "The adaptive dynamics of Lotka-Volterra systems with trade-offs.",
    "abstract": "The lattice Lotka-Volterra (LLV) model is studied using mean-field analysis and Monte Carlo simulations. While the mean-field phase portrait consists of a center surrounded by an infinity of closed trajectories, when the process is restricted to a two-dimensional (2D) square lattice, local inhomogeneities/fluctuations appear. Spontaneous local clustering is observed on lattice and homogeneous initial distributions turn into clustered structures. Reactions take place only at the interfaces between different species and the borders adopt locally fractal structure. Intercluster surface reactions are responsible for the formation of local fluctuations of the species concentrations. The box-counting fractal dimension of the LLV dynamics on a 2D support is found to depend on the reaction constants while the upper bound of fractality determines the size of the local oscillators. Lacunarity analysis is used to determine the degree of clustering of homologous species. Besides the spontaneous clustering that takes place on a regular 2D lattice, the effects of fractal supports on the dynamics of the LLV are studied. For supports of dimensionality D(s)<2 the lattice can, for certain domains of the reaction constants, adopt a poisoned state where only one of the species survives. By appropriately selecting the fractal dimension of the substrate, it is possible to direct the system into a poisoned or oscillatory steady state at will.",
    "title": "Fractal properties of the lattice Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "In this work, a simple Lotka-Volterra model of intraguild predation with three species is analysed, searching for the effect of the top predator on the coexistence with its prey-competitor species. Apart from the well-known result that the intraguild prey must be superior in the competition for the shared prey in order to make coexistence possible, the magnitude of intraguild predation and the form by which the intraguild predator makes use of the intraguild prey have important consequences upon the dynamics, extending or restricting the possibilities of coexistence. These results are easily obtained by nullcline analysis. Also, some interesting results are obtained for the same model but including saturating functional response.",
    "title": "Effects of intraguild predation on resource competition.",
    "abstract": "Competitive asymmetry, which is the advantage of having a larger body or stronger weaponry than a contestant, drives spectacular evolutionary arms races in intraspecific competition. Similar asymmetries are well documented in interspecific competition, yet they seldom lead to exaggerated traits. Here we demonstrate that two species with substantially different size may undergo parallel coevolution towards a smaller size under the same ecological conditions where a single species would exhibit an evolutionary arms race. We show that disarmament occurs for a wide range of parameters in an ecologically explicit model of competition for a single shared resource; disarmament also occurs in a simple Lotka-Volterra competition model. A key property of both models is the interplay between evolutionary dynamics and population density. The mechanism does not rely on very specific features of the model. Thus, evolutionary disarmament may be widespread and may help to explain the lack of interspecific arms races.",
    "title": "Evolutionary disarmament in interspecific competition.",
    "abstract": "We consider a bitrophic spatially distributed community consisting of prey and actively moving predators. The model is based on the assumption that the spatial and temporal variations of the predators' velocity are determined by the prey gradient. Locally, the populations follow the simple Lotka-Volterra interaction. We also assume predator reproduction and mortality to be negligible in comparison with the time scale of migration. The model demonstrates heterogeneous oscillating distributions of both species, which occur because of the active movements of predators. One consequence of this heterogeneity is increased viability of the prey population, compared to the equivalent homogeneous model, and increased consumption. Further numerical analysis shows that, on the spatially aggregated scale, the average predator density adversely affects the individual consumption, leading to a nonlinear predator-dependent trophic function, completely different from the Lotka-Volterra rule assumed at the local scale.",
    "title": "Directed movement of predators and the emergence of density-dependence in predator-prey models.",
    "abstract": "Spatial evolution is investigated in a simulated system of nine competing and mutating bacterium strains, which mimics the biochemical war among bacteria capable of producing two different bacteriocins (toxins) at most. Random sequential dynamics on a square lattice is governed by very symmetrical transition rules for neighborhood invasions of sensitive strains by killers, killers by resistants, and resistants by sensitives. The community of the nine possible toxicity/resistance types undergoes a critical phase transition as the uniform transmutation rates between the types decreases below a critical value P(c) above that all the nine types of strains coexist with equal frequencies. Passing the critical mutation rate from above, the system collapses into one of three topologically identical (degenerated) states, each consisting of three strain types. Of the three possible final states each accrues with equal probability and all three maintain themselves in a self-organizing polydomain structure via cyclic invasions. Our Monte Carlo simulations support that this symmetry-breaking transition belongs to the universality class of the three-state Potts model.",
    "title": "Phase transition in a spatial Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "abstract": "How does the long-term behaviour near equilibrium of model food webs correlate with their short-term transient dynamics? Here, simulations of the Lotka -Volterra cascade model of food webs provide the first evidence to answer this question. Transient behaviour is measured by resilience, reactivity, the maximum amplification of a perturbation and the time at which the maximum amplification occurs. Model food webs with a higher probability of local asymptotic stability may be less resilient and may have a larger transient growth of perturbations. Given a fixed connectance, the sizes and durations of transient responses to perturbations increase with the number of species. Given a fixed number of species, as connectance increases, the sizes and durations of transient responses to perturbations may increase or decrease depending on the type of link that is varied. Reactivity is more sensitive to changes in the number of donor-controlled links than to changes in the number of recipient-controlled links, while resilience is more sensitive to changes in the number of recipient-controlled links than to changes in the number of donor-controlled links. Transient behaviour is likely to be one of the important factors affecting the persistence of ecological communities.",
    "title": "Transient dynamics and food-web complexity in the Lotka-Volterra cascade model.",
    "abstract": "In this paper we consider a simple two species model for the growth of new blood vessels. The model is based upon the Lotka-Volterra system of predator and prey interaction, where we identify newly developed capillary tips as the predator species and a chemoattractant which directs their motion as the prey. We extend the Lotka-Volterra system to include a one-dimensional spatial dependence, by allowing the predators to migrate in a manner modelled on the phenomenon of chemotaxis. A feature of this model is its potential to support travelling wave solutions. We emphasize that in order to determine the existence of such travelling waves it is essential that the global relationships of a number of phase plane features other than the equilibria be investigated.",
    "title": "Lotka-Volterra equations with chemotaxis: walls, barriers and travelling waves.",
    "abstract": "All organisms are composed of multiple chemical elements such as carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus. While energy flow and element cycling are two fundamental and unifying principles in ecosystem theory, population models usually ignore the latter. Such models implicitly assume chemical homogeneity of all trophic levels by concentrating on a single constituent, generally an equivalent of energy. In this paper, we examine ramifications of an explicit assumption that both producer and grazer are composed of two essential elements: carbon and phosphorous. Using stoichiometric principles, we construct a two-dimensional Lotka-Volterra type model that incorporates chemical heterogeneity of the first two trophic levels of a food chain. The analysis shows that indirect competition between two populations for phosphorus can shift predator-prey interactions from a (+, -) type to an unusual (-, -) class. This leads to complex dynamics with multiple positive equilibria, where bistability and deterministic extinction of the grazer are possible. We derive simple graphical tests for the local stability of all equilibria and show that system dynamics are confined to a bounded region. Numerical simulations supported by qualitative analysis reveal that Rosenzweig's paradox of enrichment holds only in the part of the phase plane where the grazer is energy limited; a new phenomenon, the paradox of energy enrichment, arises in the other part, where the grazer is phosphorus limited. A bifurcation diagram shows that energy enrichment of producer-grazer systems differs radically from nutrient enrichment. Hence, expressing producer-grazer interactions in stoichiometrically realistic terms reveals qualitatively new dynamical behavior.",
    "title": "Stoichiometry in producer-grazer systems: linking energy flow with element cycling.",
    "abstract": "Multi-patch systems, in which several species interact in patches connected by dispersal, offer a general framework for the description and analysis of spatial ecological systems. This paper describes how to analyse the local stability of spatially homogeneous solutions in such systems. The spatial arrangement of the patches and their coupling is described by a matrix. For a local stability analysis of spatially homogeneous solutions it turns out to be sufficient to know the eigenvalues of this matrix. This is shown for both continuous and discrete time systems. A bookkeeping scheme is presented that facilitates stability analyses by reducing the analysis of a k-species, n-patch system to that of n uncoupled k-dimensional single-patch systems. This is demonstrated in a worked example for a chain of patches. In two applications the method is then used to analyse the stability of the equilibrium of a predator-prey system with a pool of dispersers and of the periodic solutions of the spatial Lotka-Volterra model.",
    "title": "Local stability analysis of spatially homogeneous solutions of multi-patch systems.",
    "abstract": "This article explores effects of adaptive intraguild predation on species coexistence and community structure in three species' food webs. Two Lotka-Volterra models that assume a trade-off between competition and predation strength are considered in detail. The first model does not explicitly model resource dynamics and is considered with both nonadaptive and adaptive intraguild predation; in the latter case predators choose their diet in order to maximize their instantaneous population growth rate. The second model includes resource population dynamics. Effects of adaptive intraguild predation on the community structure along a gradient in environment productivity are analyzed and compared with some experimental results of protist food webs. Conditions under which intraguild predation is adaptive are discussed for both models. It is proved that if intraguild predators are perfect optimizers then intraguild predation should decrease with increasing environmental productivity and adaptive intraguild predation is a stabilizing factor provided environmental productivity is high enough.",
    "title": "Optimal intraguild foraging and population stability.",
    "abstract": "The combined effects of sediment grain size and intra- and interspecific competition on growth rate of Hydrobia ulvae and H. ventrosa were investigated in a 2-month laboratory experiment. Individuals of H. ulvae grew faster than H. ventrosa at all competition intensities. Growth rate did not differ between fine- and coarse-grained sediments in any of the species. This suggests that other factors than the sediment quality cause the often observed size differences between Hydrobia snails from these sediment types in nature. Competition from 1.6 to 1.9 times larger competitors affected growth of the smaller target snails. Competition between the species was asymmetrical and, in both species, per capita effect of competition was stronger from H. ulvae than from H. ventrosa, regardless of sediment type. From growth, Lotka-Volterra competition coefficients were estimated to 0.2 from H. ventrosa on H. ulvae and 1.8 from H. ulvae on H. ventrosa. Since competition between the species seems to be independent of sediment grain size, the shift in numerical dominance in nature, from H. ulvae on coarse-grained sediment to H. ventrosa on fine-grained, could not be explained with different competitive ability in different environments.",
    "title": "Effects of sediment type and intra- and interspecific competition on growth rate of the marine snails Hydrobia ulvae and Hydrobia ventrosa.",
    "abstract": "Predictive microbiology is an emerging research domain in which biological and mathematical knowledge is combined to develop models for the prediction of microbial proliferation in foods. To provide accurate predictions, models must incorporate essential factors controlling microbial growth. Current models often take into account environmental conditions such as temperature, pH and water activity. One factor which has not been included in many models is the influence of a background microflora, which brings along microbial interactions. The present research explores the potential of autonomous continuous-time/two-species models to describe mixed population growth in foods. A set of four basic requirements, which a model should satisfy to be of use for this particular application, is specified. Further, a number of models originating from research fields outside predictive microbiology, but all dealing with interacting species, are evaluated with respect to the formulated model requirements by means of both graphical and analytical techniques. The analysis reveals that of the investigated models, the classical Lotka-Volterra model for two species in competition and several extensions of this model fulfill three of the four requirements. However, none of the models is in agreement with all requirements. Moreover, from the analytical approach, it is clear that the development of a model satisfying all requirements, within a framework of two autonomous differential equations, is not straightforward. Therefore, a novel prototype model structure, extending the Lotka-Volterra model with two differential equations describing two additional state variables, is proposed to describe mixed microbial populations in foods.",
    "title": "Predictive modeling of mixed microbial populations in food products: evaluation of two-species models.",
    "abstract": "We study sympatric speciation due to competition in an environment with a broad distribution of resources. We assume that the trait under selection is a quantitative trait, and that mating is assortative with respect to this trait. Our model alternates selection according to Lotka-Volterra-type competition equations, with reproduction using the ideas of quantitative genetics. The recurrence relations defined by these equations are studied numerically and analytically. We find that when a population enters a new environment, with a broad distribution of unexploited food sources, the population distribution broadens under a variety of conditions, with peaks at the edge of the distribution indicating the formation of subpopulations. After a long enough time period, the population can split into several subpopulations with little gene flow between them.",
    "title": "Competitive speciation in quantitative genetic models.",
    "abstract": "A model is presented to explore how the form of selection arising from competition for resources is affected by spatial resource heterogeneity. The model consists of a single species occupying two patches connected by migration, where the two patches can differ in the type of resources that they contain. The main goal is to determine the conditions under which competition for resources results in disruptive selection (i.e., selection favoring a polymorphism) since it is this form of selection that will give rise to the evolutionary diversification of resource exploitation strategies. In particular, comparing the conditions giving rise to disruptive selection when the two patches are identical to the conditions when they contain different resources reveals the effect of spatial resource heterogeneity. Results show that when the patches are identical, the conditions giving rise to disruptive selection are identical to those that give rise to character displacement in previous models. When the patches are different, the conditions giving rise to disruptive selection can be either more or less stringent depending upon demographic parameters such as the intrinsic rate of increase and the migration rate. Surprisingly, spatial resource heterogeneity can actually make forms of evolutionary diversification such as character displacement less likely. It is also found that results are dependent on how the resource exploitation strategies and the spatial resource heterogeneity affect the population dynamics. One robust conclusion however, is that spatial resource heterogeneity always has a disruptive effect when the migration rate between patches is low.",
    "title": "Competition and the Effect of Spatial Resource Heterogeneity on Evolutionary Diversification.",
    "abstract": "Ecosystems and economies are inextricably linked: ecosystem models and economic models are not linked. Consequently, using either type of model to design policies for preserving ecosystems or improving economic performance omits important information. Improved policies would follow from a model that links the systems and accounts for the mutual feedbacks by recognizing how key ecosystem variables influence key economic variables, and vice versa. Because general equilibrium economic models already are widely used for policy making, the approach used here is to develop a general equilibrium ecosystem model which captures salient biological functions and which can be integrated with extant economic models. In the ecosystem model, each organism is assumed to be a net energy maximizer that must exert energy to capture biomass from other organisms. The exerted energies are the \"prices\" that are paid to biomass, and each organism takes the prices as signals over which it has no control. The maximization problem yields the organism's demand for and supply of biomass to other organisms as functions of the prices. The demands and supplies for each biomass are aggregated over all organisms in each species which establishes biomass markets wherein biomass prices are determined. A short-run equilibrium is established when all organisms are maximizing and demand equals supply in every biomass market. If a species exhibits positive (negative) net energy in equilibrium, its population increases (decreases) and a new equilibrium follows. The demand and supply forces in the biomass markets drive each species toward zero stored energy and a long-run equilibrium. Population adjustments are not based on typical Lotka-Volterra differential equations in which one entire population adjusts to another entire population thereby masking organism behavior; instead, individual organism behavior is central to population adjustments. Numerical simulations use a marine food web in Alaska to illustrate the model and to show several simultaneous predator/prey relationships, prey switching by the top predator, and energy flows through the web.",
    "title": "General equilibrium of an ecosystem.",
    "abstract": "We show via a Liapunov function that in every model ecosystem governed by generalized Lotka-Volterra equations, a feasible steady state is globally asymptotically stable if the number of interaction branches equals n-1, where n is the number of species. This means that the representative graph for which the theorem holds is a 'tree' and not only an alimentary chain. Our result is valid also in the case of non-homogeneous systems, which model situations in which input fluxes are present.",
    "title": "When the feasibility of an ecosystem is sufficient for global stability?",
    "abstract": "Multi-species Lotka-Volterra models exhibit greater instability with an increase in diversity and/or connectance. These model systems, however, lack the likely behavior that a predator will prey more heavily on some species if other prey species decline in relative abundance. We find that stability does not depend on diversity and/or connectance in multi-species Lotka-Volterra models with this 'predator switching'. This conclusion is more consistent with several empirical observations than the classic conclusion, suggesting that large complex ecosystems in nature may be more stable than previously supposed.",
    "title": "Are large complex ecosystems more unstable? A theoretical reassessment with predator switching.",
