    "abstract": "Ecosystems with a large number of species are often modelled as Lotka-Volterra dynamical systems built around a large interaction matrix with random part. Under some known conditions, a global equilibrium exists and is unique. In this article, we rigorously study its statistical properties in the large dimensional regime. Such an equilibrium vector is known to be the solution of a so-called Linear Complementarity Problem. We describe its statistical properties by designing an Approximate Message Passing (AMP) algorithm, a technique that has recently aroused an intense research effort in the fields of statistical physics, machine learning, or communication theory. Interaction matrices based on the Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble, or following a Wishart distribution are considered. Beyond these models, the AMP approach developed in this article has the potential to describe the statistical properties of equilibria associated to more involved interaction matrix models.", 
    "abstract": "In this Letter, we explore the dynamics of species abundances within ecological communities using the generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) model. At variance with previous approaches, we present an analysis of GLV dynamics with temporal stochastic fluctuations in interaction strengths between species. We develop a dynamical mean field theory (DMFT) tailored for scenarios with colored noise interactions, which we term annealed disorder, and simple functional responses. Our DMFT framework enables us to show that annealed disorder acts as an effective environmental noise; i.e., every species experiences a time-dependent environment shaped by the collective presence of all other species. We then derive analytical predictions for the species abundance distribution that well match empirical observations. Our results suggest that annealed disorder in interaction strengths favors species coexistence and leads to a large pool of very rare species in the systems, supporting the insurance theory of biodiversity. This Letter offers new insights not only into the modeling of large ecosystem dynamics but also proposes novel methodologies for examining ecological systems.", 
    "abstract": "We consider different anti-symmetric Lotka-Volterra systems governing the pairwise interactions among the same ", 
    "abstract": "The assembly and persistence of ecological communities can be understood as the result of the interaction and migration of species. Here we study a single community subject to migration from a species pool in which inter-specific interactions are organised according to a bipartite network. Considering the dynamics of species abundances to be governed by generalised Lotka-Volterra equations, we extend work on unipartite networks to we derive exact results for the phase diagram of this model. Focusing on antagonistic interactions, we describe factors that influence the persistence of the two guilds, locate transitions to multiple-attractor and unbounded phases, as well as identifying a region of parameter space in which consumers are essentially absent in the local community.", 
    "abstract": "Quantification of chaos is a challenging issue in complex dynamical systems. In this paper, we discuss the chaotic properties of generalized Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard models of biodiversity, via the Hamming distance density. We identified chaotic behavior for different scenarios via the specific features of the Hamming distance and the method of q-exponential fitting. We also investigated the spatial autocorrelation length to find the corresponding characteristic length in terms of the number of species in each system. In particular, the results concerning the characteristic length are in good accordance with the study of the chaotic behavior implemented in this work.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we study in detail the structure of the global attractor for the Lotka-Volterra system with a Volterra-Lyapunov stable structural matrix. We consider the invasion graph as recently introduced in Hofbauer and Schreiber (J Math Biol 85:54, 2022) and prove that its edges represent all the heteroclinic connections between the equilibria of the system. We also study the stability of this structure with respect to the perturbation of the problem parameters. This allows us to introduce a definition of structural stability in ecology in coherence with the classical mathematical concept where there exists a detailed geometrical structure, robust under perturbation, that governs the transient and asymptotic dynamics.", 
    "abstract": "This study considers dynamics generated by a three-species Lotka-Volterra competitive model with two discrete delays. The associated characteristic equation is a cubic exponential polynomial. Assuming the stability of the three-species positive stationary point in the no-delay model, we construct a stability switching curve on which the characteristic equation has a purely imaginary root. Thus, the stability may be lost. It is numerically confirmed that the stationary point bifurcates to a limit cycle via a supercritical Hopf bifurcation when the delay crosses the stability switching curve. It is also demonstrated that as the delay gets larger, two of three species are active, and the remaining one is inactive along the cycle. The birth of complicated dynamics will be discussed in our future research.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we studied the stability of traveling wave solutions of a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition model in the form of a coupled system of reaction diffusion equations with nonlocal intraspecific and interspecific competitions in space at times. First, the uniform upper bounds for the solutions of the model was proved. By using the anti-weighted method and the energy estimates, the asymptotic stability of traveling waves with large wave speeds of the system was established.", 
    "abstract": "Stochastically perturbed models, where the white noise type stochastic perturbations are proportional to the current system state, the most realistically describe real-life biosystems. However, such models essentially have no equilibrium states apart from one at the origin. This feature makes analysis of such models extremely difficult. Probably, the best result that can be found for such models is finding of accurate estimations of a region in the model phase space that serves as an attractor for model trajectories. In this paper, we consider a classical stochastically perturbed Lotka-Volterra model of competing or symbiotic populations, where the white noise type perturbations are proportional to the current system state. Using the direct Lyapunov method in a combination with a recently developed technique, we establish global asymptotic properties of this model. In order to do this, we, firstly, construct a Lyapunov function that is applicable to the both competing (and globally stable) and symbiotic deterministic Lotka-Volterra models. Then, applying this Lyapunov function to the stochastically perturbed model, we show that solutions with positive initial conditions converge to a certain compact region in the model phase space and oscillate around this region thereafter. The direct Lyapunov method allows to find estimates for this region. We also show that if the magnitude of the noise exceeds a certain critical level, then some or all species extinct via process of the stochastic stabilization ('stabilization by noise'). The approach applied in this paper allows to obtain necessary conditions for the extinction. Sufficient conditions for the extinction (that for this model occurs via the process that is known as the 'stochastic stabilization', or the 'stabilization by noise') are found applying the Khasminskii-type Lyapunov functions.", 
    "abstract": "We explore model-form error and how to correct it in systems of ordinary differential equations. In particular, we focus on the Lotka-Volterra equations, which are used broadly in fields such as ecology, biology, economics, chemistry, and physics. Accounting for every object and their complex interactions with a complete model often becomes infeasible, thereby requiring reduced models. However, reduced models may omit vital relationships, resulting in discrepancies between reduced model predictions and observations from the true system. In this work, we propose a model correction framework for decreasing such discrepancies. Specifically, we embed a stochastic enrichment operator into the reduced model's system of equations. The enrichment operator is theory-informed, calibrated with observations from the complete model, and extended to extrapolative combinations of parameters and initial conditions. The complete model involves N species, while the reduced and enriched models only track M<N species. Numerical results show the enriched models significantly decrease discrepancies, consistently predict equilibria, and improve the species' transient behavior.", 
    "abstract": "Streams may have many branches and form complex river networks. We investigate two competition patch models associated with two different river network modules, where one is a distributary stream with two branches at the downstream end, and the other is a tributary stream with two branches at the upstream end. Treating one species as resident species and the other one as mutant species, it is shown that, for each model, there exists a invasion curve such that the mutant species can invade when rare if and only if its dispersal strategy is below this curve, but the shapes of the invasion curves are different. Moreover, we show that the global dynamics of the two models can be similar or different depending on river networks. Especially, if the drift rates of the two species are equal, then the global dynamics are similar for small drift rate and different for large drift rate. Our results also confirm a conjecture in Jiang et al. (Bull Math Biol 82:131, 2020).", 
    "abstract": "We studied trend models for the energy and electricity markets and compared their complexity. Was it associated to the ease of policy interventions to control these markets? Using open data, we applied Lotka-Volterra type models to describe the evolution of the market shares of renewable energy and of electricity from renewable sources and observed that for the latter data more complex models were needed. We then searched for characteristics and anomalies in these models that might indicate immunity to and susceptibility for policy interventions towards reaching carbon neutrality, respectively. However, the evidence linking complexity and receptiveness for policy interventions remained weak.", 
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra competition model (LVCM) is a fundamental tool for ecology, widely used to represent complex communities. The Allee effect (AE) is a phenomenon in which there is a positive correlation between population density and fitness, at low population densities. However, the interplay between the LVCM and AE has been seldom analyzed in multispecies models. Here, we analyze the mathematical properties of the LVCM [Formula: see text] AE, investigating the coexistence of species interacting through neutral diffuse competition, their equilibria and stable points. Minimum viable population density arises as the threshold below which species go extinct, characteristic of strong Allee effects. Then, by imposing relationships of main parameters to body size, i.e. allometric scaling, we derive a general solution to the size-scaling maximum and minimum expected density under plausible scenarios. The scaling of maximum population density is consistent with the literature, but we also provide novel predictions on the scaling of the lower limit to population density, a critical value for conservation science. The resulting framework is general and yields results that increase our current understanding of how complex demographic processes can be linked to ubiquitous ecological patterns.", 
    "abstract": "Industrial ecology (IE) is the process of constructing industrial-ecological systems (IES) with the realization of the mutual benefits for industrial system (IS) and ecological system (ES). Therefore, the IE level depends on the IES development and the relationship between IS and ES. This paper calculated the development index of ES and IS to account for IES development and adopted the grey Lotka-Volterra to analyze the relationship between IS and ES. Choosing the \u03c0-shaped curve area in the Yellow River basin of China as the study area, this paper analyzed its IE level and influence factors from 2005 to 2019. Findings include: (1) The development level of IES in the Area presented significant spatial differentiation and could be classified into three levels. (2) IS and ES remained in the stage of isolated development or mutual restriction. (3) IE was found to be positively correlated with scientific innovation, economic development, openness degree, pollution control, and industrial structure while negatively correlated with urbanization, resource consumption, and government influence.", 
    "abstract": "We study the impact of an age-dependent interaction in a structured predator-prey model. We present two approaches, the PDE (partial differential equation) and the renewal equation, highlighting the advantages of each one. We develop efficient numerical methods to compute the (un)stability of steady-states and the time-evolution of the interacting populations, in the form of oscillating orbits in the plane of prey birth-rate and predator population size. The asymptotic behavior when species interaction does not depend on age is completely determined through the age-profile and a predator-prey limit system of ODEs (ordinary differential equations). The appearance of a Hopf bifurcation is shown for a biologically meaningful age-dependent interaction, where the system transitions from a stable coexistence equilibrium to a collection of periodic orbits around it, and eventually to a stable limit cycle (isolated periodic orbit). Several explicit analytical solutions are used to test the accuracy of the proposed computational methods.", 
    "abstract": "We study communities emerging from generalized random Lotka-Volterra dynamics with a large number of species with interactions determined by the degree of niche overlap. Each species is endowed with a number of traits, and competition between pairs of species increases with their similarity in trait space. This leads to a model with random Hopfield-like interactions. We use tools from the theory of disordered systems, notably dynamic mean-field theory, to characterize the statistics of the resulting communities at stable fixed points and determine analytically when stability breaks down. Two distinct types of transition are identified in this way, both marked by diverging abundances but differing in the behavior of the integrated response function. At fixed points only a fraction of the initial pool of species survives. We numerically study the eigenvalue spectra of the interaction matrix between extant species. We find evidence that the two types of dynamical transition are, respectively, associated with the bulk spectrum or an outlier eigenvalue crossing into the right half of the complex plane.", 
    "abstract": "Human-induced extinction and rapid ecological changes require the development of techniques that can help avoid extinction of endangered species. The most used strategy to avoid extinction is reintroduction of the endangered species, but only 31% of these attempts are successful and they require up to 15 years for their results to be evaluated. In this research, we propose a novel strategy that improves the chances of survival of endangered predators, like lynx, by controlling only the availability of prey. To simulate the prey-predator relationship we used a Lotka-Volterra model to analyze the effects of varying prey availability on the size of the predator population. We calculate the number of prey necessary to support the predator population using a high-order sliding mode control (HOSMC) that maintains the predator population at the desired level. In the wild, nature introduces significant and complex uncertainties that affect species' survival. This complexity suggests that HOSMC is a good choice of controller because it is robust to variability and does not require prior knowledge of system parameters. These parameters can also be time varying. The output measurement required by the HOSMC is the number of predators. It can be obtained using continuous monitoring of environmental DNA that measures the number of lynxes and prey in a specific geographic area. The controller efficiency in the presence of these parametric uncertainties was demonstrated with a numerical simulation, where random perturbations were forced in all four model parameters at each simulation step, and the controller provides the specific prey input that will maintain the predator population. The simulation demonstrates how HOSMC can increase and maintain an endangered population (lynx) in just 21-26 months by regulating the food supply (hares), with an acceptable maximal steady-state error of 3%.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we propose a modified Lotka-Volterra competition model under climate change, which incorporates both spatial and temporal nonlocal effect. First, the theoretical analyses for forced waves of the model are performed, and the existence of the forced waves is proved by using the cross-iteration scheme combining with appropriate upper and lower solutions. Second, the asymptotic behaviors of the forced waves are derived by using the linearization and limiting method, and we find that the asymptotic behaviors of forced waves are mainly determined by the leading equations. In addition, some typical numerical examples are provided to illustrate the analytical results. By choosing three kinds of different kernel functions, it is found that the forced waves can be both monotonic and non-monotonic.", 
    "abstract": "Aerobic compost is an effective method for the treatment of livestock manure, which is usually accompanied by complex interspecific competition. Describing these competitive relationships through mathematical models can help understand the interaction of microorganisms and analyze the effect of exogenous additive to regulate the composting process. The common model for analyzing competition problem is the Lotka-Volterra model. However, the fixed parameters of the Lotka-Volterra model are not suitable to reflect the dynamic variations of the competitive relationship when the environmental conditions change during composting process. Therefore, this paper establishes a novel fractional grey unequal-interval time-varying Lotka-Volterra model. Firstly, a fractional grey derivate operator is proposed on the basis of the unequal interval of composting data and historical dependence of microbial growth. Secondly, considering the influence of temperature, a time-varying parameter matrix is defined to reflect the variation of competitive relationship at different composting phases, and it is estimated by forgetting factor recursive least squares. Thirdly, the optimal coefficients are optimized by grey prediction evolution algorithm. Finally, the proposed model is employed to analyze the chicken manure composting experiment. The results show that the proposed model has lower error criteria and more accurate trend of fitting curve than the other five existing models. The parameter matrix describes the dynamical variation of microbial competitive relationship in two taxonomic levels and reveals that effect of the exogenous additive is principally reacted in the thermophilic phase and the competitive advantage is shifted from Bacteroidota to Firmicutes after treatment with the exogenous additive.", 
    "abstract": "We study the stochastic spatial Lotka-Volterra model for predator-prey interaction subject to a periodically varying carrying capacity. The Lotka-Volterra model with on-site lattice occupation restrictions (i.e., finite local carrying capacity) that represent finite food resources for the prey population exhibits a continuous active-to-absorbing phase transition. The active phase is sustained by the existence of spatiotemporal patterns in the form of pursuit and evasion waves. Monte Carlo simulations on a two-dimensional lattice are utilized to investigate the effect of seasonal variations of the environment on species coexistence. The results of our simulations are also compared to a mean-field analysis in order to specifically delineate the impact of stochastic fluctuations and spatial correlations. We find that the parameter region of predator and prey coexistence is enlarged relative to the stationary situation when the carrying capacity varies periodically. The (quasi-)stationary regime of our periodically varying Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system shows qualitative agreement between the stochastic model and the mean-field approximation. However, under periodic carrying capacity-switching environments, the mean-field rate equations\u00a0predict period-doubling scenarios that are washed out by internal reaction noise in the stochastic lattice model. Utilizing visual representations of the lattice simulations and dynamical correlation functions, we study how the pursuit and evasion waves are affected by ensuing resonance effects. Correlation function measurements indicate a time delay in the response of the system to sudden changes in the environment. Resonance features are observed in our simulations that cause prolonged persistent spatial correlations. Different effective static environments are explored in the extreme limits of fast and slow periodic switching. The analysis of the mean-field equations\u00a0in the fast-switching regime enables a semiquantitative description of the (quasi-)stationary state.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we study the dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra model with an Allee effect, which is included in the predator population and has an abstract functional form. We classify the original system as a slow-fast system when the conversion rate and mortality of the predator population are relatively low compared to the prey population. In comparison to numerical simulation results that indicate at most three limit cycles in the system [Sen et al., J. Math. Biol. 84(1), 1-27 (2022)], we prove the uniqueness and stability of the slow-fast limit periodic set of the system in the two-scale framework. We also discuss canard explosion phenomena and homoclinic bifurcation. Furthermore, we use the enter-exit function to demonstrate the existence of relaxation oscillations. We construct a transition map to show the appearance of homoclinic loops including turning or jump points. To the best of our knowledge, the homoclinic loop of fast slow jump slow type, as classified by Dumortier, is uncommon. Our biological results demonstrate that under certain parameter conditions, population density does not change uniformly, but instead presents slow-fast periodic fluctuations. This phenomenon may explain sudden population density explosions in populations.", 
    "abstract": "We compute the typical number of equilibria of the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations describing species-rich ecosystems with random, nonreciprocal interactions using the replicated Kac-Rice method. We characterize the multiple-equilibria phase by determining the average abundance and similarity between equilibria as a function of their diversity (i.e., of the number of coexisting species) and of the variability of the interactions. We show that linearly unstable equilibria are dominant, and that the typical number of equilibria differs with respect to the average number.", 
    "abstract": "Lotka-Volterra (LV) equations play a key role in the mathematical modeling of various ecological, biological and chemical systems. When the number of species (or, depending on the viewpoint, chemical components) becomes large, basic but fundamental questions such as computing the number of surviving species still lack theoretical answers. In this paper, we consider a large system of LV equations where the interactions between the various species are a realization of a random matrix. We provide conditions to have a unique equilibrium and present a heuristics to compute the number of surviving species. This heuristics combines arguments from Random Matrix Theory, mathematical optimization (LCP), and standard extreme value theory. Numerical simulations, together with an empirical study where the strength of interactions evolves with time, illustrate the accuracy and scope of the results.", 
    "abstract": "Complex system stability can be studied via linear stability analysis using random matrix theory (RMT) or via feasibility (requiring positive equilibrium abundances). Both approaches highlight the importance of interaction structure. Here we show, analytically and numerically, how RMT and feasibility approaches can be complementary. In generalized Lotka-Volterra (GLV) models with random interaction matrices, feasibility increases when predator-prey interactions increase; increasing competition/mutualism has the opposite effect. These changes have crucial impact on the stability of the GLV model.", 
    "abstract": "To alter microbial community composition for therapeutic purposes, an accurate and reliable modeling framework capable of predicting microbial community outcomes is required. Lotka-Volterra (LV) equations have been utilized to describe a breadth of microbial communities, yet, the conditions in which this modeling framework is successful remain unclear. Here, we propose that a set of simple ", 
    "abstract": "In this work, we describe mostly analytical work related to a novel approach to parameter identification for a two-variable Lotka-Volterra (LV) system. Specifically, this approach is qualitative, in that we aim not to determine precise values of model parameters but rather to establish relationships among these parameter values and properties of the trajectories that they generate, based on a small number of available data points. In this vein, we prove a variety of results about the existence, uniqueness, and signs of model parameters for which the trajectory of the system passes exactly through a set of three given data points, representing the smallest possible data set needed for identification of model parameter values. We find that in most situations such a data set determines these values uniquely; we also thoroughly investigate the alternative cases, which result in nonuniqueness or even nonexistence of model parameter values that fit the data. In addition to results about identifiability, our analysis provides information about the long-term dynamics of solutions of the LV system directly from the data without the necessity of estimating specific parameter values.", 
    "abstract": "This work deals with a systematic approach for the investigation of compound difference anti-synchronization (CDAS) scheme among chaotic generalized Lotka-Volterra biological systems (GLVBSs). First, an active control strategy (ACS) of nonlinear type is described which is specifically based on Lyapunov's stability analysis (LSA) and master-slave framework. In addition, the biological control law having nonlinear expression is constructed for attaining asymptotic stability pattern for the error dynamics of the discussed GLVBSs. Also, simulation results through MATLAB environment are executed for illustrating the efficacy and correctness of considered CDAS approach. Remarkably, our attained analytical outcomes have been in outstanding conformity with the numerical outcomes. The investigated CDAS strategy has numerous significant applications to the fields of encryption and secure communication.", 
    "abstract": "The competitive relationship is one of the important studies in population ecology. In this paper, we investigate the dynamical behaviors of a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition system in which intrinsic rates of increase are governed by the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process. First, we prove the existence and uniqueness of the global solution of the model. Second, the extinction of populations is discussed. Moreover, a sufficient condition for the existence of the stationary distribution in the system is obtained, and, further, the formulas for the mean and the covariance of the probability density function of the corresponding linearized system near the equilibrium point are obtained. Finally, numerical simulations are applied to verify the theoretical results.", 
    "abstract": "This paper concerns the dynamics of two stochastic hybrid delay Lotka-Volterra systems with harvesting and L\u00e9vy noise in a polluted environment (i.e., predator-prey system and competitive system). For every system, sufficient and necessary conditions for persistence in mean and extinction of each species are established. Then, sufficient conditions for global attractivity of the systems are obtained. Finally, sufficient and necessary conditions for the existence of optimal harvesting strategy are provided. The accurate expressions for the optimal harvesting effort (OHE) and the maximum of expectation of sustainable yield (MESY) are given. Our results show that the dynamic behaviors and optimal harvesting strategy are closely correlated with both time delays and three types of environmental noises (namely white Gaussian noises, telephone noises and L\u00e9vy noises).", 
    "abstract": "The eigenvalue spectrum of a random matrix often only depends on the first and second moments of its elements, but not on the specific distribution from which they are drawn. The validity of this universality principle is often assumed without proof in applications. In this Letter, we offer a pertinent counterexample in the context of the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations. Using dynamic mean-field theory, we derive the statistics of the interactions between species in an evolved ecological community. We then show that the full statistics of these interactions, beyond those of a Gaussian ensemble, are required to correctly predict the eigenvalue spectrum and therefore stability. Consequently, the universality principle fails in this system. We thus show that the eigenvalue spectra of random matrices can be used to deduce the stability of \"feasible\" ecological communities, but only if the emergent non-Gaussian statistics of the interactions between species are taken into account.", 
    "abstract": "In the analysis of complex ecosystems it is common to use random interaction coefficients, which are often assumed to be such that all species are statistically equivalent. In this work we relax this assumption by imposing hierarchical interspecies interactions. These are incorporated into a generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamical system. In a hierarchical community species benefit more, on average, from interactions with species further below them in the hierarchy than from interactions with those above. Using dynamic mean-field theory, we demonstrate that a strong hierarchical structure is stabilizing, but that it reduces the number of species in the surviving community, as well as their abundances. Additionally, we show that increased heterogeneity in the variances of the interaction coefficients across positions in the hierarchy is destabilizing. We also comment on the structure of the surviving community and demonstrate that the abundance and probability of survival of a species are dependent on its position in the hierarchy.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the degree of mutualism between socioeconomic development and industrial and domestic pollution in provinces of China and to analyze the differences in spatial characteristics between their regions.\nThis study used the HDI to measure socioeconomic development and the Lotka-Volterra model to group and estimate the force-on and mutualism degree indexes of industrial and domestic pollution and socioeconomic development in 31 provinces of China, which were then used to them. Then, the study calculated the global and local Moran's \nThe research showed that in 2016-2020, compared with 2011-2015, the number of provinces where socioeconomic development and industrial pollution control mutually promoted each other was approximately the same, while the number of provinces that promoted each other's effectiveness with domestic pollution control was reduced. There were many provinces with industrial pollution ranked in the S-level, while most provinces placed a different emphasis on industrial and domestic pollution control. The rank in China tended to be spatially balanced in 2016-2020. There was a negative spatial autocorrelation between the ranks of most provinces and neighboring provinces in 2011-2020. The ranks of some eastern provinces showed a phenomenon of a high-high agglomeration, while the ranks of provinces in the western region were dominated by a high-low agglomeration.", 
    "abstract": "Networks are ubiquitous throughout biology, spanning the entire range from molecules to food webs and global environmental systems. Yet, despite substantial efforts by the scientific community, the inference of these networks from data still presents a problem that is unsolved in general. One frequent strategy of addressing the structure of networks is the assumption that the interactions among molecular or organismal populations are static and correlative. While often successful, these static methods are no panacea. They usually ignore the asymmetry of relationships between two species and inferences become more challenging if the network nodes represent dynamically changing quantities. Overcoming these challenges, two very different network inference approaches have been proposed in the literature: Lotka-Volterra (LV) models and Multivariate Autoregressive (MAR) models. These models are computational frameworks with different mathematical structures which, nevertheless, have both been proposed for the same purpose of inferring the interactions within coexisting population networks from observed time-series data. Here, we assess these dynamic network inference methods for the first time in a side-by-side comparison, using both synthetically generated and ecological datasets. Multivariate Autoregressive and Lotka-Volterra models are mathematically equivalent at the steady state, but the results of our comparison suggest that Lotka-Volterra models are generally superior in capturing the dynamics of networks with non-linear dynamics, whereas Multivariate Autoregressive models are better suited for analyses of networks of populations with process noise and close-to linear behavior. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study comparing LV and MAR approaches. Both frameworks are valuable tools that address slightly different aspects of dynamic networks.", 
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra model is widely used to model interactions between two species. Here, we generate synthetic data mimicking competitive, mutualistic and antagonistic interactions between two tumor cell lines, and then use the Lotka-Volterra model to infer the interaction type. Structural identifiability of the Lotka-Volterra model is confirmed, and practical identifiability is assessed for three experimental designs: (a) use of a single data set, with a mixture of both cell lines observed over time, (b) a sequential design where growth rates and carrying capacities are estimated using data from experiments in which each cell line is grown in isolation, and then interaction parameters are estimated from an experiment involving a mixture of both cell lines, and (c) a parallel experimental design where all model parameters are fitted to data from two mixtures (containing both cell lines but with different initial ratios) simultaneously. Each design is tested on data generated from the Lotka-Volterra model with noise added, to determine efficacy in an ideal sense. In addition to assessing each design for practical identifiability, we investigate how the predictive power of the model - i.e., its ability to fit data for initial ratios other than those to which it was calibrated - is affected by the choice of experimental design. The parallel calibration procedure is found to be optimal and is further tested on in silico data generated from a spatially-resolved cellular automaton model, which accounts for oxygen consumption and allows for variation in the intensity level of the interaction between the two cell lines. We use this study to highlight the care that must be taken when interpreting parameter estimates for the spatially-averaged Lotka-Volterra model when it is calibrated against data produced by the spatially-resolved cellular automaton model, since baseline competition for space and resources in the CA model may contribute to a discrepancy between the type of interaction used to generate the CA data and the type of interaction inferred by the LV model.", 
    "abstract": "Consider a large ecosystem (foodweb) with n species, where the abundances follow a Lotka-Volterra system of coupled differential equations. We assume that each species interacts with [Formula: see text] other species and that their interaction coefficients are independent random variables. This parameter d reflects the connectance of the foodweb and the sparsity of its interactions especially if d is much smaller that n. We address the question of feasibility of the foodweb, that is the existence of an equilibrium solution of the Lotka-Volterra system with no vanishing species. We establish that for a given range of d, namely [Formula: see text] or [Formula: see text] with an extra condition on the sparsity structure, there exists an explicit threshold depending on n and d and reflecting the strength of the interactions, which guarantees the existence of a positive equilibrium as the number of species n gets large. From a mathematical point of view, the study of feasibility is equivalent to the existence of a positive solution [Formula: see text] (component-wise) to the equilibrium linear equation: [Formula: see text]where [Formula: see text] is the [Formula: see text] vector with components 1 and [Formula: see text] is a large sparse random matrix, accounting for the interactions between species. The analysis of such positive solutions essentially relies on large random matrix theory for sparse matrices and Gaussian concentration of measure. The stability of the equilibrium is established. The results in this article extend to a sparse setting the results obtained by Bizeul and Najim in Bizeul and Najim (2021).", 
    "abstract": "A sufficiently advanced extraterrestrial civilization can send out a swarm of self-replicating probes for space exploration. Given the fast-growing number of such a probe, even if there is only one extraterrestrial civilization sending out such probes in the Milky Way galaxy, we should still expect to see them. The fact that we do not consist part of the Fermi paradox. The suggestion that self-replicating probes will eventually mutate to consume their progenitors and therefore significantly reduce the number of total probes has been investigated and dismissed in the literature. In this work, we revisit this question with a more realistic Lotka-Volterra model and show that mutated probes would drive the progenitor probes into \"extinction,\" thereby replacing them to spread throughout the galaxy. Thus, the efficiency of mutated probes in reducing the total number of self-replicating probes is even less than previously thought. As part of the analysis, we also suggest that, somewhat counter-intuitively, in designing self-replicating probes, one should not program them to stop replicating when sufficient mutation causes the probes to fail to recognize the progenitor probes as \"self.\"", 
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra (LV) dynamics is investigated in the framework of the Weyl-Wigner (WW) quantum mechanics extended to one-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, H(x,k) constrained by the \u2202^{2}H/\u2202x\u2202k=0 condition. Supported by the Heisenberg-Weyl noncommutative algebra, where [x,k]=i, the canonical variables x and k are interpreted in terms of the LV variables, y=e^{-x} and z=e^{-k}, eventually associated with the number of individuals in a closed competitive dynamics: the so-called prey-predator system. The WW framework provides the ground for identifying how classical and quantum evolution coexist at different scales and for quantifying quantum analog effects. Through the results from the associated Wigner currents, (non-)Liouvillian and stationary properties are described for thermodynamic and Gaussian quantum ensembles in order to account for the corrections due to quantum features over the classical phase-space pattern yielded by the Hamiltonian description of the LV dynamics. In particular, for Gaussian statistical ensembles, the Wigner flow framework provides the exact profile for the quantum modifications over the classical LV phase-space trajectories so that Gaussian quantum ensembles can be interpreted as an adequate Hilbert space state configuration for comparing quantum and classical regimes. The generality of the framework developed here extends the boundaries of the understanding of quantumlike effects on competitive microscopical biosystems.", 
    "abstract": "Gain switching is a simple technique for generating short pulses through direct modulation of optical gain in lasers. Its mathematical description requires the connection between a slowly varying, low intensity solution and a short, high intensity solution. Previous studies constructed a complete pulse by patching these two partial solutions at an arbitrary point in the phase plane. Here, we develop an asymptotic theory in which slow and fast solutions are matched together through a third intermediate solution. The mathematical analysis of the laser problem benefits from a preliminary study of the Lotka-Volterra equations\u00a0when the two competing populations exhibit different timescales. Since this particular limit has never been explored, we first analyze the Lotka-Volterra equations\u00a0before applying the theory to the more complex laser equations. We show a significant effect of the transition layer on the pulse intensity. Last, we discuss the case of sustained laser pulses generated through the Q-switching technique and show how their description may benefit from our theory.", 
    "abstract": "With the proposal of China's high-quality development strategy, how to promote regional stability and coordinated development based on a deep understanding of the main contradictions and changes in China's society has become the focus of research. High-quality development is a brand-new coordinated development concept, which aims to optimize the economic structure, transform the development model, enhance the development momentum, and take innovation as the primary driving force. How to promote the coordinated development of this region has become a hot issue considered by scholars. The Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region is the capital economic circle of China, and the purpose of this study is to promote the coordinated and stable development of the region. On this premise, this paper firstly adopts the composite Grey Lotka-Volterra (GLV) model and Fractional GM(1,1) (FGM(1,1)) model to research Water Resources system-Economic System-Industrial System-Technology Innovation System in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. Secondly, by analyzing the research data, it is found that the relationship between the system is very complex, and the stability calculation results are all below 0. Then, the analysis of the research results shows that there is no obvious coordination among the three regions, and they have not yet reached a state of mutual promotion and stable and coordinated development. Finally, four suggestions are put forward for the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region. This can not only provide direction for the future development of the region but also have reference significance for the development of other regions. Further, accelerate the coordination and unity of all factors of production in China and promote China's development at a deeper and higher level.", 
    "abstract": "We study the probability of fixation in a stochastic two-species competition model. By identifying a naturally occurring fast timescale, we derive an approximation to the associated backward Kolmogorov equation that allows us to obtain an explicit closed form solution for the probability of fixation of either species. We use our result to study fitness tradeoff strategies and show that, despite some tradeoffs having nearly negligible effects on the corresponding deterministic dynamics, they can have large implications for the outcome of the stochastic system.", 
    "abstract": "Technology innovation has become an important driving force of economic and social development and has received wide attention from academics. Most scholars mainly take technology innovation as an overall variable to explore its impact on the economy and society. The main contribution of this study is to open the black box of technology innovation and introduce the lotka-Volterra model to explore the internal structure of technology innovation in the Chinese high-tech industry and to analyze the ecological relationships, evolutionary trends, equilibrium states of six technology innovation species including independent innovation (II), technology import (TI), research & development (RD), technology renovation (TR), foreign technology acquisition (FTA), and domestic technology purchase (DTP). The results of the study show that, First, the ecological relationship between prey and predator is observed between RD and TR, DTP and FTA, and II and TI. Second, no equilibrium state is observed between TD and TF and II and TI. Third, an unstable equilibrium state is observed between RD and TR.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the conditions of feasibility and stability in ecological systems is a major challenge in theoretical ecology. The seminal work of May in 1972 and recent developments based on the theory of random matrices have shown the existence of emergent universal patterns of both stability and feasibility in ecological dynamics. However, only a few studies have investigated the role of delay coupled with population dynamics in the emergence of feasible and stable states. In this work, we study the effects of delay on generalized Loka-Volterra population dynamics of several interacting species in closed ecological environments. First, we investigate the relation between feasibility and stability of the modelled ecological community in the absence of delay and find a simple analytical relation when intra-species interactions are dominant. We then show how, by increasing the time delay, there is a transition in the stability phases of the population dynamics: from an equilibrium state to a stable non-point attractor phase. We calculate analytically the critical delay of that transition and show that it is in excellent agreement with numerical simulations. Finally, following a similar approach to characterizing stability in empirical studies, we investigate the coefficient of variation, which quantifies the magnitude of population fluctuations. We show that in the oscillatory regime induced by the delay, the variability at community level decreases for increasing diversity. This article is part of the theme issue 'Emergent phenomena in complex physical and socio-technical systems: from cells to societies'.", 
    "abstract": "In this manuscript, we systematically investigate projective difference synchronization between identical generalized Lotka-Volterra biological models of integer order using active control and parameter identification methods. We employ Lyapunov stability theory (LST) to construct the desired controllers, which ensures the global asymptotical convergence of a trajectory following synchronization errors. In addition, simulations were conducted in a MATLAB environment to illustrate the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed techniques. Exceptionally, both experimental and theoretical results are in excellent agreement. Comparative analysis between the considered strategy and previously published research findings is presented. Lastly, we describe an application of our considered combination difference synchronization in secure communication through numerical simulations.", 
    "abstract": "The random Lotka-Volterra model is widely used to describe the dynamical and thermodynamic features of ecological communities. In this work, we consider random symmetric interactions between species and analyze the strongly competitive interaction case. We investigate different scalings for the distribution of the interactions with the number of species and try to bridge the gap with previous works. Our results show two different behaviors for the mean abundance at zero and finite temperature, respectively, with a continuous crossover between the two. We confirm and extend previous results obtained for weak interactions: at zero temperature, even in the strong competitive interaction limit, the system is in a multiple-equilibria phase, whereas at finite temperature only a unique stable equilibrium can exist. Finally, we establish the qualitative phase diagrams and compare the species abundance distributions in the two cases.", 
    "abstract": "The rock-paper-scissors (RPS) model successfully reproduces some of the main features of simple cyclic predator-prey systems with interspecific competition observed in nature. Still, lattice-based simulations of the spatial stochastic RPS model are known to give rise to significantly different results, depending on whether the three-state Lotka-Volterra or the four-state May-Leonard formulation is employed. This is true independently of the values of the model parameters and of the use of either a von Neumann or a Moore neighborhood. In this paper, we introduce a simple modification to the standard spatial stochastic RPS model in which the range of the search of the nearest neighbor may be extended up to a maximum Euclidean radius R. We show that, with this adjustment, the Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard formulations can be designed to produce similar results, both in terms of dynamical properties and spatial features, by means of an appropriate parameter choice. In particular, we show that this modified spatial stochastic RPS model naturally leads to the emergence of spiral patterns in both its three- and four-state formulations.", 
    "abstract": "We study a class of Lotka-Volterra stochastic differential equations with continuous and pure-jump noise components, and derive conditions that guarantee the strong stochastic persistence (SSP) of the populations engaged in the ecological dynamics. More specifically, we prove that, under certain technical assumptions on the jump sizes and rates, there is convergence of the laws of the stochastic process to a unique stationary distribution supported far away from extinction. We show how the techniques and conditions used in proving SSP for general Kolmogorov systems driven solely by Brownian motion must be adapted and tailored in order to account for the jumps of the driving noise. We provide examples of applications to the case where the underlying food-web is: (a) a 1-predator, 2-prey food-web, and (b) a multi-layer food-chain.", 
    "abstract": "Microbial communities found in nature are composed of many rare species and few abundant ones, as reflected by their heavy-tailed abundance distributions. How a large number of species can coexist in those complex communities and why they are dominated by rare species is still not fully understood. We show how heavy-tailed distributions arise as an emergent property from large communities with many interacting species in population-level models. To do so, we rely on generalized Lotka-Volterra models for which we introduce a global maximal capacity. This maximal capacity accounts for the fact that communities are limited by available resources and space. In a parallel ad hoc approach, we obtain heavy-tailed abundance distributions from logistic models, without interactions, through specific distributions of the parameters. We expect both mechanisms, interactions between many species and specific parameter distributions, to be relevant to explain the observed heavy tails.", 
    "abstract": "We introduce and analyze a spatial Lotka-Volterra competition model with local and nonlocal interactions. We study two alternative classes of nonlocal competition that differ in how each species' characteristics determine the range of the nonlocal interactions. In both cases, nonlocal interactions can create spatial patterns of population densities in which highly populated clumps alternate with unpopulated regions. These non-populated regions provide spatial niches for a weaker competitor to establish in the community and persist in conditions in which local models predict competitive exclusion. Moreover, depending on the balance between local and nonlocal competition intensity, the clumps of the weaker competitor vary from M-like structures with higher densities of individuals accumulating at the edges of each clump to triangular structures with most individuals occupying their centers. These results suggest that long-range competition, through the creation of spatial patterns in population densities, might be a key driving force behind the rich diversity of species observed in natural ecological communities.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, the invasive speed selection of the monostable travelling wave for a three-component lattice Lotka-Volterra competition system is studied via the upper and lower solution method, as well as the comparison principle. By constructing several special upper and lower solutions, we establish sufficient conditions such that the linear or nonlinear selection is realized.", 
    "abstract": "Population dynamic models can be used in conjunction with time series of species abundances to infer interactions. Understanding microbial interactions is a prerequisite for numerous goals in microbiome research, including predicting how populations change over time, determining how manipulations of microbiomes affect dynamics and designing synthetic microbiomes to perform tasks. As such, there is great interest in adapting population dynamic theory for microbial systems. Despite the appeal, numerous hurdles exist. One hurdle is that the data commonly obtained from DNA sequencing yield estimates of relative abundances, while population dynamic models such as the generalized Lotka-Volterra model track absolute abundances or densities. It is not clear whether relative abundance data alone can be used to infer parameters of population dynamic models such as the Lotka-Volterra model. We used structural identifiability analyses to determine the extent to which a time series of relative abundances can be used to parametrize the generalized Lotka-Volterra model. We found that only with absolute abundance data to accompany relative abundance estimates from sequencing can all parameters be uniquely identified. However, relative abundance data alone do contain information on relative interaction strengths, which is sufficient for many studies where the goal is to estimate key interactions and their effects on dynamics. Using synthetic data of a simple community for which we know the underlying structure, local practical identifiability analysis showed that modest amounts of both process and measurement error do not fundamentally affect these identifiability properties.", 
    "abstract": "For classic Lotka-Volterra systems governing many interacting species, we establish an exclusion principle that rules out the existence of linearly asymptotically stable steady states in subcommunities of communities that admit a stable state which is internally D-stable. This type of stability is known to be ensured, e.g., by diagonal dominance or Volterra-Lyapunov stability conditions. By consequence, the number of stable steady states of this type is bounded by Sperner's lemma on anti-chains in a poset. The number of stable steady states can nevertheless be very large if there are many groups of species that strongly inhibit outsiders but have weak interactions among themselves. By examples we also show that in general it is possible for a stable community to contain a stable subcommunity consisting of a single species. Thus a recent empirical finding to the contrary, in a study of random competitive systems by Lischke and L\u00f6ffler (Theor Popul Biol 115:24-34, 2017), does not hold without qualification.", 
    "abstract": "We study a reference model in theoretical ecology, the disordered Lotka-Volterra model for ecological communities, in the presence of finite demographic noise. Our theoretical analysis, valid for symmetric interactions, shows that for sufficiently heterogeneous interactions and low demographic noise the system displays a multiple equilibria phase, which we fully characterize. In particular, we show that in this phase the number of locally stable equilibria is exponential in the number of species. Upon further decreasing the demographic noise, we unveil the presence of a second transition like the so-called \"Gardner\" transition to a marginally stable phase similar to that observed in the jamming of amorphous materials. We confirm and complement our analytical results by numerical simulations. Furthermore, we extend their relevance by showing that they hold for other interacting random dynamical systems such as the random replicant model. Finally, we discuss their extension to the case of asymmetric couplings.", 
    "abstract": "COVID-19 has become a world wide pandemic since its first appearance at the end of the year 2019. Although some vaccines have already been announced, a new mutant version has been reported in UK. We certainly should be more careful and make further investigations to the virus spread and dynamics. This work investigates dynamics in Lotka-Volterra based Models of COVID-19. The proposed models involve fractional derivatives which provide more adequacy and realistic description of the natural phenomena arising from such models. Existence and boundedness of non-negative solution of the fractional model is proved. Local stability is also discussed based on Matignon's stability conditions. Numerical results show that the fractional parameter has effect on flattening the curves of the coexistence steady state. This interesting foundation might be used among the public health strategies to control the spread of COVID-19 and its mutated versions.", 
    "abstract": "The rapid industrialization and the lack of technological innovation over the past 40 years have caused serious environmental pollution and waste of resources. Therefore, it remains an urgent challenge to coordinate technological innovation, resource consumption, environmental quality, and high-quality industrial development in China. Using the data of Shaanxi Province from 2005 to 2019, in this paper, we adopt the 4-population grey Lotka-Volterra model (GLV) to study the competition and cooperation among technological innovation (TI), resource consumption (RE), environmental quality (EE), and industrial development quality (IQ). We also discuss the equilibrium point and stability of the GLV model and further verify its accuracy. We conduct an empirical study of the data of Shaanxi Province, and the results demonstrate that (1) TI is able to improve EE, increase IQ, and promote RE; (2) conserving resources has a positive effect on TI, EE, and IQ; (3) although EE could prevent TI and IQ, it can reduce RE; and (4) IQ can effectively reduce RE and improve EE; however, it hinders TI. (5) The result of equilibrium analysis reveals that the evolution of the four factors will tend to reach a stable equilibrium point in the future, that is, realizing co-evolution.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we explore a stochastic age-dependent cooperative Lotka-Volterra (LV) system with an environmental noise. By applying the theory of M-matrix, we prove the existence and uniqueness of the global solution for the system. Since the stochastic age-dependent cooperative LV system cannot be solved explicitly, we then construct an Euler-Maruyama (EM) numerical solution to approach the exact solution of the system. The convergence rate and the pth-moment boundedness of the scheme have also been obtained. Additionally, numerical experiments have been conducted to verify our theoretical results.", 
    "abstract": "A meta-model of diffusively coupled Lotka-Volterra systems used to model various biomedical phenomena is considered in this paper. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of ", 
    "abstract": "In this paper I exploit Google searches for the topics \"symptoms\", \"unemployment\" and \"news\" as a proxy for how much attention people pay to the health and economic situation and the amount of news they consume, respectively. I then use an integrable nonautonomous Lotka-Volterra model to study the interactions among these searches in three U.S. States (Mississippi, Nevada and Utah), the District of Columbia and in the U.S. as a whole. I find that the results are very similar in all areas analyzed, and for different specifications of the model. Prior to the pandemic outbreak, the interactions among health searches, unemployment searches and news consumption are very weak, i.e. an increase in searches for one of these topics does not affect the amount of searches for the others. However, from around the beginning of the pandemic these interactions intensify greatly, suggesting that the pandemic has created a tight link between the health and economic situation and the amount of news people consume. I observe that from March 2020 unemployment predates searches for news and for symptoms. Consequently, whenever searches for unemployment increase, all the other searches decrease. Conversely, when searches for any of the other topics considered increase, searches for unemployment also increase. This underscores the importance of mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on unemployment to avoid that this issue swallows all others in the mind of the people.", 
    "abstract": "We investigate the global dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion-advection system for small diffusion rates in heterogenous environment. Our result suggests that the sign of $ \\int_{0}^{L}(m_{1}-m_{2})e^{kx}dx $ plays a significant role in understanding the global dynamics. In addition, the limiting behavior of coexistence steady state is obtained when diffusion rates of two species tend to zero meanwhile.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we consider the following Lotka-Volterra competition system with dynamical resources and density-dependent diffusion in a bounded smooth domain [Formula: see text] with homogeneous Neumann boundary conditions, where the parameters [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text] ([Formula: see text]) are positive constants, m(x) is the prey's resource, and the dispersal rate function [Formula: see text] satisfies the the following hypothesis: [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text] on [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text]. When m(x) is constant, we show that the system (*) with has a unique global classical solution when the initial datum is in functional space [Formula: see text] with [Formula: see text]. By constructing appropriate Lyapunov functionals and using LaSalle's invariant principle, we further prove that the solution of (*) converges to the co-existence steady state exponentially or competitive exclusion steady state algebraically as time tends to infinity in different parameter regimes. Our results reveal that once the resource w has temporal dynamics, two competitors may coexist in the case of weak competition regardless of their dispersal rates and initial values no matter whether there is explicit dependence in dispersal or not. When the prey's resource is spatially heterogeneous (i.e. m(x) is non-constant), we use numerical simulations to demonstrate that the striking phenomenon \"slower diffuser always prevails\" (cf. Dockery et al. in J Math Biol 37(1):61-83, 1998; Lou in J Differ Equ 223(2):400-426, 2006) fails to appear if the non-random dispersal strategy is employed by competing species (i.e. either [Formula: see text] or [Formula: see text] is non-constant) while it still holds true if both d(w) and [Formula: see text] are constant.", 
    "abstract": "[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.00288.].", 
    "abstract": "Point 1: The ecological models of Alfred J. Lotka and Vito Volterra have had an enormous impact on ecology over the past century. Some of the earliest-and clearest-experimental tests of these models were famously conducted by Georgy Gause in the 1930s. Although well known, the data from these experiments are not widely available and are often difficult to analyze using standard statistical and computational tools. Point 2: Here, we introduce the gauseR package, a collection of tools for fitting Lotka-Volterra models to time series data of one or more species. The package includes several methods for parameter estimation and optimization, and includes 42 datasets from Gause's species interaction experiments and related work. Additionally, we include with this paper a short blog post discussing the historical importance of these data and models, and an R vignette with a walk-through introducing the package methods. The package is available for download at github.com/adamtclark/gauseR. Point 3: To demonstrate the package, we apply it to several classic experimental studies from Gause, as well as two other well-known datasets on multi-trophic dynamics on Isle Royale, and in spatially structured mite populations. In almost all cases, models fit observations closely and fitted parameter values make ecological sense. Point 4: Taken together, we hope that the methods, data, and analyses that we present here provide a simple and user-friendly way to interact with complex ecological data. We are optimistic that these methods will be especially useful to students and educators who are studying ecological dynamics, as well as researchers who would like a fast tool for basic analyses.", 
    "abstract": "In many applications of interacting systems, we are only interested in the dynamic behavior of a subset of all possible active species. For example, this is true in combustion models (many transient chemical species are not of interest in a given reaction) and in epidemiological models (only certain subpopulations are consequential). Thus, it is common to use greatly reduced or partial models in which only the interactions among the species of interest are known. In this work, we explore the use of an embedded, sparse, and data-driven discrepancy operator to augment these partial interaction models. Preliminary results show that the model error caused by severe reductions-e.g., elimination of hundreds of terms-can be captured with sparse operators, built with only a small fraction of that number. The operator is embedded within the differential equations of the model, which allows the action of the operator to be interpretable. Moreover, it is constrained by available physical information and calibrated over many scenarios. These qualities of the discrepancy model-interpretability, physical consistency, and robustness to different scenarios-are intended to support reliable predictions under extrapolative conditions.", 
    "abstract": "We present a biological fractional ", 
    "abstract": "With increasing resolution of microbial diversity at the genomic level, experimental and modeling frameworks that translate such diversity into phenotypes are highly needed. This is particularly important when comparing drug-resistant with drug-sensitive pathogen strains, when anticipating epidemiological implications of microbial diversity, and when designing control measures. Classical approaches quantify differences between microbial strains using the exponential growth model, and typically report a selection coefficient for the relative fitness differential between two strains. The apparent simplicity of such approaches comes with the costs of limiting the range of biological scenarios that can be captured, and biases strain fitness estimates to polarized extremes of competitive exclusion. Here, we propose a mathematical and statistical framework based on the Lotka-Volterra model, that can capture frequency-dependent competition between microbial strains within-host and upon transmission. As a ", 
    "abstract": "We first present a predator-prey model for two species and then extend the model to three species where the two predator species engage in mutualistic predation. Constant effort harvesting and the impact of by-catch issue are also incorporated. Necessary sufficient conditions for the existence and stability of positive equilibrium points are examined. It is shown that harvesting is sustainable, and the memory concept of the fractional derivative damps out oscillations in the population numbers so that the system as a whole settles on an equilibrium quicker than it would with integer time derivatives. Finally, some possible physical explanations are given for the obtained results. It is shown that the stability requires the memory concept in the model.", 
    "abstract": "This work deals with the speed sign of travelling waves to the Lotka-Volterra model with diffusion and bistable nonlinearity. We obtain new conditions for the determinacy of the sign of the bistable wave speed by constructing upper or lower solutions with an inside parameter to be adjusted. The established conditions improve or supplement the results in the references and give insight into the combined effect of system parameters on the propagation direction of the bistable wave.", 
    "abstract": "Dynamic changes in microbial communities play an important role in human health and disease. Specifically, deciphering how microbial species in a community interact with each other and their environment can elucidate mechanisms of disease, a problem typically investigated using tools from community ecology. Yet, such methods require measurements of absolute densities, whereas typical datasets only provide estimates of relative abundances. Here, we systematically investigate models of microbial dynamics in the simplex of relative abundances. We derive a new nonlinear dynamical system for microbial dynamics, termed \"compositional\" Lotka-Volterra (cLV), unifying approaches using generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) equations from community ecology and compositional data analysis. On three real datasets, we demonstrate that cLV recapitulates interactions between relative abundances implied by gLV. Moreover, we show that cLV is as accurate as gLV in forecasting microbial trajectories in terms of relative abundances. We further compare cLV to two other models of relative abundance dynamics motivated by common assumptions in the literature-a linear model in a log-ratio transformed space, and a linear model in the space of relative abundances-and provide evidence that cLV more accurately describes community trajectories over time. Finally, we investigate when information about direct effects can be recovered from relative data that naively provide information about only indirect effects. Our results suggest that strong effects may be recoverable from relative data, but more subtle effects are challenging to identify.", 
    "abstract": "A set of axioms is formulated characterizing ecologically plausible community dynamics. Using these axioms, it is proved that the transients following an invasion into a sufficiently stable equilibrium community by a mutant phenotype similar to one of the community's finitely many resident phenotypes can always be approximated by means of an appropriately chosen Lotka-Volterra model. To this end, the assumption is made that similar phenotypes in the community form clusters that are well-separated from each other, as is expected to be generally the case when evolution proceeds through small mutational steps. Each phenotypic cluster is represented by a single phenotype, which we call an approximate phenotype and assign the cluster's total population density. We present our results in three steps. First, for a set of approximate phenotypes with arbitrary equilibrium population densities before the invasion, the Lotka-Volterra approximation is proved to apply if the changes of the population densities of these phenotypes are sufficiently small during the transient following the invasion. Second, quantitative conditions for such small changes of population densities are derived as a relationship between within-cluster differences and the leading eigenvalue of the community's Jacobian matrix evaluated at the equilibrium population densities before the invasion. Third, to demonstrate the utility of our results, the 'invasion implies substitution' result for monomorphic populations is extended to arbitrarily polymorphic populations consisting of well-recognizable and -separated clusters.", 
    "abstract": "We investigate the outcome of generalized Lotka-Volterra dynamics of ecological communities with random interaction coefficients and nonlinear feedback. We show in simulations that the saturation of nonlinear feedback stabilizes the dynamics. This is confirmed in an analytical generating-functional approach to generalized Lotka-Volterra equations with piecewise linear saturating response. For such systems we are able to derive self-consistent relations governing the stable fixed-point phase and to carry out a linear stability analysis to predict the onset of unstable behavior. We investigate in detail the combined effects of the mean, variance, and covariance of the random interaction coefficients, and the saturation value of the nonlinear response. We find that stability and diversity increases with the introduction of nonlinear feedback, where decreasing the saturation value has a similar effect to decreasing the covariance. We also find cooperation to no longer have a detrimental effect on stability with nonlinear feedback, and the order parameters mean abundance and diversity to be less dependent on the symmetry of interactions with stronger saturation.", 
    "abstract": "Microplastic particles are widely distributed in a variety of ecosystems and can be transferred to predators along a food chain after being ingested by prey. However, how microplastic particles affect prey and predator populations is not fully understood. In this study, using the Lotka-Volterra model, we theoretically investigated predator-prey population dynamics in terms of toxicological response intensity (strength to population growth rate) to microplastic particles, and\u00a0examined the negative effects on prey feeding ability and predator performance due to microplastic particles. Results of numerical simulations indicate the critical properties of the predator-prey system in response to microplastic particles: (i) predators are more vulnerable than prey under exposure to microplastic particles; (ii) the effect of microplastic particles on prey and predator population growths can be negligible when toxicological response intensities of prey and predator are small; (iii) this system is prey dependent for predator functional response, whose stability highly relies on the density of prey; (iv) the reduced feeding capacity of prey and predator induced by microplastic particles does not significantly affect the population dynamics of the predator-prey system. Moreover, our analysis suggests that dynamic\u00a0Lotka-Volterra models can play a vital role in predicting ecological impacts of microplastic particles on predator-prey population dynamics.", 
    "abstract": "Spontaneous formation of transverse patterns is ubiquitous in nonlinear dynamical systems of all kinds. An aspect of particular interest is the active control of such patterns. In nonlinear optical systems this can be used for all-optical switching with transistorlike performance, for example, realized with polaritons in a planar quantum-well semiconductor microcavity. Here we focus on a specific configuration which takes advantage of the intricate polarization dependencies in the interacting optically driven polariton system. Besides detailed numerical simulations of the coupled light-field exciton dynamics, in the present paper we focus on the derivation of a simplified population competition model giving detailed insight into the underlying mechanisms from a nonlinear dynamical systems perspective. We show that such a model takes the form of a generalized Lotka-Volterra system for two competing populations explicitly including a source term that enables external control. We present a comprehensive analysis of both the existence and stability of stationary states in the parameter space spanned by spatial anisotropy and external control strength. We also construct phase boundaries in nontrivial regions and characterize emerging bifurcations. The population competition model reproduces all key features of the switching observed in full numerical simulations of the rather complex semiconductor system and at the same time is simple enough for a fully analytical understanding.", 
    "abstract": "This paper concerns ecological invasion phenomenon of species based on the diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition model. We investigate the spreading speed (or the minimal wave speed of traveling waves) selection to the model and concentrate on the conjecture raised by Roques et al. (J Math Biol 71(2):465-489, 2015). By using an abstract implicit function theorem in a weighted functional space coupled with a perturbation technique, we not only prove this conjecture, but also show that the fast decay behavior of the first species is necessary and sufficient for the nonlinear speed selection of the whole system. This may lead to further significant results on the answer to the original Hosono's conjecture, a problem that has been outstanding for more than twenty years.", 
    "abstract": "We revisit the problem of the predominance of the \"weakest\" species in the context of Lotka-Volterra and May-Leonard formulations of a spatial stochastic rock-paper-scissors model in which one of the species has its predation probability reduced by 0<P_{w}<1. We show that, despite the different population dynamics and spatial patterns, these two formulations lead to qualitatively similar results for the late time values of the relative abundances of the three species (as a function of P_{w}), as long as the simulation lattices are sufficiently large for coexistence to prevail-the \"weakest\" species generally having an advantage over the others (specially over its predator). However, for smaller simulation lattices, we find that the relatively large oscillations at the initial stages of simulations with random initial conditions may result in a significant dependence of the probability of species survival on the lattice size.", 
    "abstract": "Internet of Things (IoT) is the paradigm that has largely contributed to the development of smart buildings in our society. This technology makes it possible to monitor all aspects of the smart building and to improve its operation. One of the main challenges encountered by IoT networks is that the the data they collect may be unreliable since IoT devices can lose accuracy for several reasons (sensor wear, sensor aging, poorly constructed buildings, etc.). The aim of our work is to study the evolution of IoT networks over time in smart buildings. The hypothesis we have tested is that, by amplifying the Lotka-Volterra equations as a community of living organisms (an ecosystem model), the reliability of the system and its components can be predicted. This model comprises a set of differential equations that describe the relationship between an IoT network and multiple IoT devices. Based on the Lotka-Volterra model, in this article, we propose a model in which the predators are the non-precision IoT devices and the prey are the precision IoT devices. Furthermore, a third species is introduced, the maintenance staff, which will impact the interaction between both species, helping the prey to survive within the ecosystem. This is the first Lotka-Volterra model that is applied in the field of IoT. Our work establishes a proof of concept in the field and opens a wide spectrum of applications for biology models to be applied in IoT.", 
    "abstract": "The Fractional Gray Lotka-Volterra Model (FGLVM) is introduced and used for modeling the transaction counts of three cryptocurrencies, namely, Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ripple. The 2-dimensional study is on Bitcoin and Litecoin, while the 3-dimensional study is on Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ripple. Dataset from 28 April 2013 to 10 February 2018 provides forecasting values for Bitcoin and Litecoin through the 2-dimensional FGLVM study, while dataset from 7 August 2013 to 10 February 2018 provides forecasting values of Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ripple through the 3-dimensional FGLVM study. Forecasting values of cryptocurrencies for the n-dimensional FGLVM study, n={2,3} along 100 days of study time, are displayed. The graph and Lyapunov exponents of the 2-dimensional Lotka-Volterra system using the results of FGLVM reveal that the system is a chaotic dynamical system, while the 3-dimensional Lotka-Volterra system displays parabolic patterns in spite of the chaos indicated by the Lyapunov exponents. The mean absolute percentage error indicates that 2-dimensional FGLVM has a good accuracy for the overall forecasting values of Bitcoin and a reasonable accuracy for the last 300 forecasting values of Litecoin, while the 3-dimensional FGLVM has a good accuracy for the overall forecasting values of Bitcoin and a reasonable accuracy for the last 300 forecasting values of both Litecoin and Ripple. Both 2- and 3-dimensional FGLVM analyses evoke a future constant trend in transacting Bitcoin and a future decreasing trend in transacting Litecoin and Ripple. Bitcoin will keep relatively higher transaction counts, with Litecoin transaction counts everywhere superior to that of Ripple.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we propose and analyze a two-species Lotka-Volterra competition model with random perturbations that relate to the inter-specific competition rates and the coexistence equilibrium of the corresponding deterministic system. The stochasticity in inter-specific competition (between species) is more important than that in intra-specific competition (within species). We pose two assumptions and then obtain su cient conditions for coexistence and for competitive exclusion respectively, and find that small random perturbations will not destroy the dynamic behaviors of the corresponding deterministic system. Moreover, if one species goes extinct, the convergence rate to zero is obtained by investigating the Lyapunov exponent. Finally, we provide several numerical examples to illustrate our mathematical results.", 
    "abstract": "The generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) equations, a classic model from theoretical ecology, describe the population dynamics of a set of interacting species. As the number of species in these systems grow in number, their dynamics become increasingly complex and intractable. We introduce steady-state reduction (SSR), a method that reduces a gLV system of many ecological species into two-dimensional subsystems that each obey gLV dynamics and whose basis vectors are steady states of the high-dimensional model. We apply this method to an experimentally-derived model of the gut microbiome in order to observe the transition between \"healthy\" and \"diseased\" microbial states. Specifically, we use SSR to investigate how fecal microbiota transplantation, a promising clinical treatment for dysbiosis, can revert a diseased microbial state to health.", 
    "abstract": "The affordability of high throughput DNA sequencing has allowed us to explore the dynamics of microbial populations in various ecosystems. Mathematical modeling and simulation of such microbiome time series data can help in getting better understanding of bacterial communities. In this paper, we present Web-gLV-a GUI based interactive platform for generalized Lotka-Volterra (gLV) based modeling and simulation of microbial populations. The tool can be used to generate the mathematical models with automatic estimation of parameters and use them to predict future trajectories using numerical simulations. We also demonstrate the utility of our tool on few publicly available datasets. The case studies demonstrate the ease with which the current tool can be used by biologists to model bacterial populations and simulate their dynamics to get biological insights. We expect Web-gLV to be a valuable contribution in the field of ecological modeling and metagenomic systems biology.", 
    "abstract": "Explicit expressions in terms of Gaussian Hypergeometric functions are found for a 'balance' manifold that connects the non-zero steady states of a 2-species, non-competitive, scaled Lotka-Volterra system by the unique heteroclinic orbits. In this model, the parameters are the interspecific interaction coefficients which affects the form of the solution used. Similar to the carrying simplex of the competitive model, this balance simplex is the common boundary of the basin of repulsion of the origin and infinity, and is smooth except possibly at steady states.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this paper is to investigate the dynamical behaviour of a class of three species Lotka-Volterra competitive-competitive-cooperative models with feedback controls and time delays. By developing a new analysis technique, we obtain some sufficient conditions that ensure these models have the dynamical property of permanence. We also give some sufficient conditions that guarantee the global attractivity of positive solutions for this system by constructing a new suitable Lyapunov function. Finally, we give some numerical simulations to illustrate our results in this paper.", 
    "abstract": "The number of limit cycles for three dimensional Lotka-Volterra competitive systems is an open problem. Recently, we have presented a concrete example with three limit cycles in Zeeman's class 27\u00a0[6]. In this paper, we present a concrete example with three limit cycles which belongs to Zeeman's class 29. We explicitly give the critical parameter values such that the interior equilibrium is an exact unstable weak focus of order two. Also we verify that the system is permanent. This implies that there can exist three limit cycles around the interior equilibrium under suitable perturbations. We actually generate multiple limit cycles, and confirm them by numerical simulation. In addition, we present some other examples with three limit cycles in Zeeman's class 27.", 
    "abstract": "We analyse the asymptotic behaviour of integro-differential equations modelling N populations in interaction, all structured by different traits. Interactions are modelled by non-local terms involving linear combinations of the total number of individuals in each population. These models have already been shown to be suitable for the modelling of drug resistance in cancer, and they generalize the usual Lotka-Volterra ordinary differential equations. Our aim is to give conditions under which there is persistence of all species. Through the analysis of a Lyapunov function, our first main result gives a simple and general condition on the matrix of interactions, together with a convergence rate. The second main result establishes another type of condition in the specific case of mutualistic interactions. When either of these conditions is met, we describe which traits are asymptotically selected.", 
    "abstract": "This paper is devoted to the analysis of a simple Lotka-Volterra food chain evolving in a stochastic environment. It can be seen as the companion paper of Hening and Nguyen (J Math Biol 76:697-754, 2018b) where we have characterized the persistence and extinction of such a food chain under the assumption that there is no intraspecific competition among predators. In the current paper, we focus on the case when all the species experience intracompetition. The food chain we analyze consists of one prey and [Formula: see text] predators. The jth predator eats the [Formula: see text]st species and is eaten by the [Formula: see text]st predator; this way each species only interacts with at most two other species-the ones that are immediately above or below it in the trophic chain. We show that one can classify, based on the invasion rates of the predators (which we can determine from the interaction coefficients of the system via an algorithm), which species go extinct and which converge to their unique invariant probability measure. We obtain stronger results than in the case with no intraspecific competition because in this setting we can make use of the general results of Hening and Nguyen (Ann Appl Probab 28:1893-1942, 2018a). Unlike most of the results available in the literature, we provide an in-depth analysis for both non-degenerate and degenerate noise. We exhibit our general results by analyzing trophic cascades in a plant-herbivore-predator system and providing persistence/extinction criteria for food chains of length [Formula: see text].", 
    "abstract": "The population dynamics of two interacting species modeled by the Lotka-Volterra (LV) model with general parameters that can promote or suppress the other species is studied. It is found that the properties of the two species' isoclines determine the interaction of species, leading to six regimes in the phase diagram of interspecies interaction; i.e., there are six different interspecific relationships described by the LV model. Four regimes allow for nontrivial species coexistence, among which it is found that three of them are stable, namely, weak competition, mutualism, and predator-prey scenarios can lead to win-win coexistence situations. The Lyapunov function for general nontrivial two-species coexistence is also constructed. Furthermore, in the presence of spatial diffusion of the species, the dynamics can lead to steady wavefront propagation and can alter the population map. Propagating wavefront solutions in one dimension are investigated analytically and by numerical solutions. The steady wavefront speeds are obtained analytically via nonlinear dynamics analysis and verified by numerical solutions. In addition to the inter- and intraspecific interaction parameters, the intrinsic speed parameters of each species play a decisive role in species populations and wave properties. In some regimes, both species can copropagate with the same wave speeds in a finite range of parameters. Our results are further discussed in the light of possible biological relevance and ecological implications.", 
    "abstract": "DNA strand displacement as a theoretic foundation is helpful in constructing reaction networks and DNA circuits. Research on chemical kinetics is significant to exploit the inherent potential property of biomolecular systems. In this study, we investigated two typical reactions and designed DNA strands with a fluorophore and dark quencher for reaction networks using a 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillator system as an example to show the convenience of and superiority for observation of dynamic trajectory using our design, and took advantage of the synchronization reaction module to synchronize two 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillators. The classical theory of chemical reaction networks can be used to represent biological processes for mathematical modeling. We used this method to simulate the nonlinear kinetics of a 3-variable Lotka-Volterra oscillator system.", 
    "abstract": "We theoretically study the dynamics of two interacting microbial species in the chemostat. These species are competitors for a common resource, as well as mutualists due to cross-feeding. In line with previous studies (Assaneo, et al., 2013; Holland, et al., 2010; Iwata, et al., 2011), we demonstrate that this system has a rich repertoire of dynamical behavior, including bistability. Standard Lotka-Volterra equations are not capable to describe this particular system, as these account for only one type of interaction (mutualistic or competitive). We show here that the different steady state solutions can be well captured by an extended Lotka-Volterra model, which better describe the density-dependent interaction (mutualism at low density and competition at high density). This two-variable model provides a more intuitive description of the dynamical behavior than the chemostat equations.", 
    "abstract": "Predator-prey systems have been studied intensively for over a hundred years. These studies have demonstrated that the dynamics of Lotka-Volterra (LV) systems are not stable, that is, exhibiting either cyclic oscillation or divergent extinction of one species. Stochastic versions of the deterministic cyclic oscillations also exhibit divergent extinction. Thus, we have no solution for asymptotic stability in predator-prey systems, unlike most natural predator-prey interactions that sometimes exhibit stable and persistent coexistence. Here, we demonstrate that adding a small immigration into the prey or predator population can stabilize the LV system. Although LV systems have been studied intensively, there is no study on the non-linear modifications that we have tested. We also checked the effect of the inclusion of non-linear interaction term to the stability of the LV system. Our results show that small immigrations invoke stable convergence in the LV system with three types of functional responses. This means that natural predator-prey populations can be stabilized by a small number of sporadic immigrants.", 
    "abstract": "Multiple-scale mobility is ubiquitous in nature and has become instrumental for understanding and modeling animal foraging behavior. However, the impact of individual movements on the long-term stability of populations remains largely unexplored. We analyze deterministic and stochastic Lotka-Volterra systems, where mobile predators consume scarce resources (prey) confined in patches. In fragile systems (that is, those unfavorable to species coexistence), the predator species has a maximized abundance and is resilient to degraded prey conditions when individual mobility is multiple scaled. Within the L\u00e9vy flight model, highly superdiffusive foragers rarely encounter prey patches and go extinct, whereas normally diffusing foragers tend to proliferate within patches, causing extinctions by overexploitation. L\u00e9vy flights of intermediate index allow a sustainable balance between patch exploitation and regeneration over wide ranges of demographic rates. Our analytical and simulated results can explain field observations and suggest that scale-free random movements are an important mechanism by which entire populations adapt to scarcity in fragmented ecosystems.", 
    "abstract": "The celebrated Lotka-Volterra (LV) model is vastly used to describe the simple competition between prey and predator populations. The stochastic LV model, for its turn, considers the competition among two similar prey and two similar predator populations, with each group being described by identical mathematical equations. However, each of these groups differs in stochastic fluctuations, which are interpreted as small variations in each species' specimens (Genetic Diversity and Phenotypic Expression Diversity) and environmental conditions. The relative statistical variation presented is inversely proportional to the square root of the amount of specimens in each population. The model begins with two prey and two predator groups and, after a transient time, is reduced to one element of each group, returning to the classic LV system. That is, the model ends in asymmetric states despite starting from an initial symmetric condition without population excess. Spontaneous population symmetry breaking without population excess was obtained using the stochastic method. For its turn, the deterministic method could be used to analyze such breaking by forcing a perturbative fluctuation or adding little excess to one population, but the stochastic method can simulate such break in symmetry naturally.", 
    "abstract": "We study the influence of a randomly switching reproduction-predation rate on the survival behavior of the nonspatial cyclic Lotka-Volterra model, also known as the zero-sum rock-paper-scissors game, used to metaphorically describe the cyclic competition between three species. In large and finite populations, demographic fluctuations (internal noise) drive two species to extinction in a finite time, while the species with the smallest reproduction-predation rate is the most likely to be the surviving one (law of the weakest). Here we model environmental (external) noise by assuming that the reproduction-predation rate of the strongest species (the fastest to reproduce and predate) in a given static environment randomly switches between two values corresponding to more and less favorable external conditions. We study the joint effect of environmental and demographic noise on the species survival probabilities and on the mean extinction time. In particular, we investigate whether the survival probabilities follow the law of the weakest and analyze their dependence on the external noise intensity and switching rate. Remarkably, when, on average, there is a finite number of switches prior to extinction, the survival probability of the predator of the species whose reaction rate switches typically varies nonmonotonically with the external noise intensity (with optimal survival about a critical noise strength). We also outline the relationship with the case where all reaction rates switch on markedly different time scales.", 
    "abstract": "Classical Lotka-Volterra (LV) competition equation has shown that coexistence of competitive species is only possible when intraspecific competition is stronger than interspecific competition, i.e., the species inhibit their own growth more than the growth of the other species. Note that density effect is assumed to be linear in a classical LV equation. In contrast, in wild populations we can observed that mortality rate often increases when population density is very high, known as crowding effects. Under this perspective, the aggregation models of competitive species have been developed, adding the additional reduction in growth rates at high population densities. This study shows that the coexistence of a few species is promoted. However, an unsolved question is the coexistence of many competitive species often observed in natural communities. Here, we build an LV competition equation with a nonlinear crowding effect. Our results show that under a weak crowding effect, stable coexistence of many species becomes plausible, unlike the previous aggregation model. An analysis indicates that increased mortality rate under high density works as elevated intraspecific competition leading to the coexistence. This may be another mechanism for the coexistence of many competitive species leading high species diversity in nature.", 
    "abstract": "This paper is concerned with invasion entire solutions of a monostable time periodic Lotka-Volterra competition-diffusion system. We first give the asymptotic behaviors of time periodic traveling wave solutions at infinity by a dynamical approach coupled with the two-sided Laplace transform. According to these asymptotic behaviors, we then obtain some key estimates which are crucial for the construction of an appropriate pair of sub-super solutions. Finally, using the sub-super solutions method and comparison principle, we establish the existence of invasion entire solutions which behave as two periodic traveling fronts with different speeds propagating from both sides of x-axis. In other words, we formulate a new invasion way of the superior species to the inferior one in a time periodic environment.", 
    "abstract": "We study the persistence and extinction of species in a simple food chain that is modelled by a Lotka-Volterra system with environmental stochasticity. There exist sharp results for deterministic Lotka-Volterra systems in the literature but few for their stochastic counterparts. The food chain we analyze consists of one prey and [Formula: see text] predators. The jth predator eats the [Formula: see text]th species and is eaten by the [Formula: see text]th predator; this way each species only interacts with at most two other species-the ones that are immediately above or below it in the trophic chain. We show that one can classify, based on an explicit quantity depending on the interaction coefficients of the system, which species go extinct and which converge to their unique invariant probability measure. Our work can be seen as a natural extension of the deterministic results of Gard and Hallam '79 to a stochastic setting. As one consequence we show that environmental stochasticity makes species more likely to go extinct. However, if the environmental fluctuations are small, persistence in the deterministic setting is preserved in the stochastic system. Our analysis also shows that the addition of a new apex predator makes, as expected, the different species more prone to extinction. Another novelty of our analysis is the fact that we can describe the behavior of the system when the noise is degenerate. This is relevant because of the possibility of strong correlations between the effects of the environment on the different species.", 
    "abstract": "Migration is observed across many species. Several authors have studied ecological migration by applying cellular automaton (CA). In this paper, we present a directional migration model with desert on a one-dimensional lattice where a traffic CA model and a lattice Lotka-Volterra system are connected. Here predators correspond to locomotive animals while prey is immobile plants. Predators migrate between deserts and fertile lands repeatedly. Computer simulations reveal the two types of phase transition: coexistence of both species and prey dominance, which is caused by both benefit and cost of migration. In the coexistence phase, the steady-state density of predators usually increases by migration as long as the desert size is small and their mortality rate is low. In contrast, the prey density increases, even if the desert size becomes large. Such a paradox comes from the indirect effect: predators go extinct by the increase of desert size, so that the plant density can increase. Moreover, we find several self-organized spatial patterns: 1) predators form a stripe pattern; namely swarms. 2) The velocity of predators is high on deserts, but very low on fertile land. 3) Predators give birth only on fertile lands.", 
    "abstract": "The relationship between the M-species stochastic Lotka-Volterra competition (SLVC) model and the M-allele Moran model of population genetics is explored via timescale separation arguments. When selection for species is weak and the population size is large but finite, precise conditions are determined for the stochastic dynamics of the SLVC model to be mappable to the neutral Moran model, the Moran model with frequency-independent selection, and the Moran model with frequency-dependent selection (equivalently a game-theoretic formulation of the Moran model). We demonstrate how these mappings can be used to calculate extinction probabilities and the times until a species' extinction in the SLVC model.", 
    "abstract": "In ecological communities consumers (excluding parasites and parasitoids) are in general larger and less numerous than their resource. This results in a well-known observation known as 'Eltonian pyramids' or the 'pyramid of numbers', and metabolic arguments suggest that this pattern is independent of the number of trophic levels in a system. At the same time, Lotka-Volterra (LV) consumer-resource models are a frequently used tool to study many questions in community ecology, but their capacity to produce Eltonian pyramids has not been formally analysed. Here, I address this knowledge gap by investigating if and when LV food chain models give rise to Eltonian pyramids. I show that Eltonian pyramids are difficult to reproduce without density-dependent mortality in the consumers, unless biologically plausible relationships between mortality rate and interaction strength are taken into account.", 
    "abstract": "Recently, a theoretical framework aimed at separating the roles of dynamics and topology in multidimensional systems has been developed [Gao et al., Nature (London) 530, 307 (2016)10.1038/nature16948]. The validity of their method is assumed to hold depending on two main hypotheses: (i) The network determined by the the interaction between pairs of nodes has negligible degree correlations; (ii) the node activities are uniform across nodes on both the drift and the pairwise interaction functions. Moreover, the authors consider only positive (mutualistic) interactions. Here we show the conditions proposed by Gao and collaborators [Nature\u00a0(London) 530, 307 (2016)10.1038/nature16948] are neither sufficient nor necessary to guarantee that their method works in general and validity of their results are not independent of the model chosen within the class of dynamics they considered. Indeed we find that a new condition poses effective limitations to their framework and we provide quantitative predictions of the quality of the one-dimensional collapse as a function of the properties of interaction networks and stable dynamics using results from random matrix theory. We also find that multidimensional reduction may work also for an interaction matrix with a mixture of positive and negative signs, opening up an application of the framework to food webs, neuronal networks, and social and economic interactions.", 
    "abstract": "Ecological communities in heterogeneous environments assemble through the combined effect of species interaction and migration. Understanding the effect of these processes on the community properties is central to ecology. Here we study these processes for a single community subject to migration from a pool of species, with population dynamics described by the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations. We derive exact results for the phase diagram describing the dynamical behaviors, and for the diversity and species abundance distributions. A phase transition is found from a phase where a unique globally attractive fixed point exists to a phase where multiple dynamical attractors exist, leading to history-dependent community properties. The model is shown to possess a symmetry that also establishes a connection with other well-known models.", 
    "abstract": "A central question in the study of ecology and evolution is: \"Why are there so many species?\" It has been shown that certain forms of the Lotka-Volterra (L-V) competition equations lead to an unlimited number of species. Furthermore, these authors note how any change in the nature of competition (the competition kernel) leads to a finite or small number of coexisting species. Here we build upon these works by further investigating the L-V model of unlimited niche packing as a reference model and evolutionary game for understanding the environmental factors restricting biodiversity. We also examine the combined eco-evolutionary dynamics leading up to the species diversity and traits of the ESS community in both unlimited and finite niche-packing versions of the model. As an L-V game with symmetric competition, we let the strategies of individuals determine the strength of the competitive interaction (like competes most with like) and also the carrying capacity of the population. We use a mixture of analytic proofs (for one and two species systems) and numerical simulations. For the model of unlimited niche packing, we show that a finite number of species will evolve to specific convergent stable minima of the adaptive landscape (also known as species archetypes). Starting with a single species, faunal buildup can proceed either through species doubling as each diversity-specific set of minima are reached, or through the addition of species one-by-one by randomly assigning a speciation event to one of the species. Either way it is possible for an unlimited number or species to evolve and coexist. We examine two simple and biologically likely ways for breaking the unlimited niche-packing: (1) some minimum level of competition among species, and (2) constrain the fundamental niche of the trait space to a finite interval. When examined under both ecological and evolutionary dynamics, both modifications result in convergent stable ESSs with a finite number of species. When the number of species is held below the number of species in an ESS coalition, we see a diverse array of convergent stable niche archetypes that consist of some species at maxima and some at minima of the adaptive landscape. Our results support those of others and suggest that instead of focusing on why there are so many species we might just as usefully ask, why are there so few species?", 
    "abstract": "Pairwise models are commonly used to describe many-species communities. In these models, an individual receives additive fitness effects from pairwise interactions with each species in the community ('additivity assumption'). All pairwise interactions are typically represented by a single equation where parameters reflect signs and strengths of fitness effects ('universality assumption'). Here, we show that a single equation fails to qualitatively capture diverse pairwise microbial interactions. We build mechanistic reference models for two microbial species engaging in commonly-found chemical-mediated interactions, and attempt to derive pairwise models. Different equations are appropriate depending on whether a mediator is consumable or reusable, whether an interaction is mediated by one or more mediators, and sometimes even on quantitative details of the community (e.g. relative fitness of the two species, initial conditions). Our results, combined with potential violation of the additivity assumption in many-species communities, suggest that pairwise modeling will often fail to predict microbial dynamics.", 
    "abstract": "One way to explore assembly of extant and novel communities from species pools, and by that biodiversity and species ranges, is to study the equilibrium behavior of dynamic competition models such as the Lotka-Volterra competition (LVC) model. We present a novel method (COMMUSTIX) to determine all stable fixpoints of the general LVC model with abundances x from a given pool of n species. To that purpose, we split the species in potentially surviving species (x", 
    "abstract": "This article is a first application of an integrable nonautonomous Lotka-Volterra (LV) model to the study of tourism dynamics. In particular, we analyze the interaction in terms of touristic flows among three Italian regions. Confirming an hypothesis advanced by recent theoretical works, we find that these regions not only compete against each other, but at times they also proceed in mutualism. Moreover, the kind and the intensity of the interaction changes over time, suggesting that dynamic models can play a vital role in the study of touristic flows.", 
    "abstract": "The Lotka-Volterra model is a differential system of two coupled equations representing the interaction of two species: a prey one and a predator one. We formulate an optimal control problem adding the effect of hunting both species as the control variable. We analyse the optimal hunting problem paying special attention to the nature of the optimal state and control trajectories in long time intervals. To do that, we apply recent theoretical results on the frame to show that, when the time horizon is large enough, optimal strategies are nearly steady-state. Such path is known as turnpike property. Some experiments are performed to observe such turnpike phenomenon in the hunting problem. Based on the turnpike property, we implement a variant of the single shooting method to solve the previous optimisation problem, taking the middle of the time interval as starting point.", 
    "abstract": "We employ Monte Carlo simulations to study a stochastic Lotka-Volterra model on a two-dimensional square lattice with periodic boundary conditions. If the (local) prey carrying capacity is finite, there exists an extinction threshold for the predator population that separates a stable active two-species coexistence phase from an inactive state wherein only prey survive. Holding all other rates fixed, we investigate the non-equilibrium relaxation of the predator density in the vicinity of the critical predation rate. As expected, we observe critical slowing-down, i.e., a power law dependence of the relaxation time on the predation rate, and algebraic decay of the predator density at the extinction critical point. The numerically determined critical exponents are in accord with the established values of the directed percolation universality class. Following a sudden predation rate change to its critical value, one finds critical aging for the predator density autocorrelation function that is also governed by universal scaling exponents. This aging scaling signature of the active-to-absorbing state phase transition emerges at significantly earlier times than the stationary critical power laws, and could thus serve as an advanced indicator of the (predator) population's proximity to its extinction threshold.", 
    "abstract": "In this article, we include data on historical and estimated market shares of two markets. In particular, we include annual data on the market shares of the Japanese beer market (1963-2000) and biannual data on the market shares of the mobile phones market in Greece (1998-2007). In addition, we estimate monthly data on market shares for both markets. We show how this data can be used to derive firms' utility functions and their competitive roles.", 
    "abstract": "In food webs, many interacting species coexist despite the restrictions imposed by the competitive exclusion principle and apparent competition. For the generalized Lotka-Volterra equations, sustainable coexistence necessitates nonzero determinant of the interaction matrix. Here we show that this requirement is equivalent to demanding that each species be part of a non-overlapping pairing, which substantially constrains the food web structure. We demonstrate that a stable food web can always be obtained if a non-overlapping pairing exists. If it does not, the matrix rank can be used to quantify the lack of niches, corresponding to unpaired species. For the species richness at each trophic level, we derive the food web assembly rules, which specify sustainable combinations. In neighboring levels, these rules allow the higher level to avert competitive exclusion at the lower, thereby incorporating apparent competition. In agreement with data, the assembly rules predict high species numbers at intermediate levels and thinning at the top and bottom. Using comprehensive food web data, we demonstrate how omnivores or parasites with hosts at multiple trophic levels can loosen the constraints and help obtain coexistence in food webs. Hence, omnivory may be the glue that keeps communities intact even under extinction or ecological release of species.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the factors that control the dynamics of interacting species is a fundamental problem in ecology. The nature of the interactions among different species is usually not completely understood, but it is assumed that the species interaction plays an important role in the ecosystem properties as predicted by the niches models for an ecosystem. However, recent studies point out as the neutral hypothesis proposed by Hubbell of non-interacting species with an external source from the surrounding environment, allows to explain the relative species abundance distribution when the ecosystem has reached a stationary situation. In this paper we use the concept of fitness landscape to introduce a random dynamical model that describes the evolution of different communities near a stationary situation. The average dynamics can be associated to a system of Lotka-Volterra equations with mutualistic interactions. Then we derive a Master equation that satisfies the detailed balance condition of thermodynamical equilibria and allows to analytically compute the relative species abundance distribution near the stationary state as a multinomial negative distribution. These results suggest a possible approach to a synthetic theory that joins the niche theories and the Hubbell's neutral theory for RSA distribution.", 
    "abstract": "Two experiments are reported in which participants perceived different physical quantities: size and speed. The perceptual tasks were performed in the context of motor performance problems. Participants perceived the size of objects in order to grasp the objects single handed or with both hands. Likewise, participants perceived the speed of a moving treadmill in order to control walking or running at that speed. In both experiments, the perceptual tasks were repeatedly performed by the participants while the to-be-perceived quantity was gradually varied from small to large objects (Experiment 1) and from low to high speeds (Experiment 2). Hysteresis with negative sign was found when participants were not allowed to execute the motor component, that is, when the execution stage was decoupled from the planning stage. No such effect was found in the control condition, when participants were allowed to execute the motor action. Using a Lotka-Volterra-Haken model for two competing neural populations, it is argued that the observations are consistent with the notion that the repetitions induce an adaptation effect of the perceptual system via top-down regulation. Moreover, the amount of synaptic modulation involved in the adaptation is estimated from participant data.", 
    "abstract": "The population control of the Lotka-Volterra model is one of the most important and widely investigated issues in mathematical ecology. In this study, assuming that birth rate is controllable and using the Z-type dynamic method, we develop Z-type control laws to drive the prey population and/or predator population to a desired state to keep species away from extinction and to improve ecosystem stability. A direct controller group is initially designed to control the prey and predator populations simultaneously. Two indirect controllers are then proposed for prey population control and predator population control by exerting exogenous measure on another species. All three control laws possess exponential convergence performances. Finally, the corresponding numerical simulations are performed. Results substantiate the theoretical analysis and effectiveness of such Z-type control laws for the population control of the Lotka-Volterra model.", 
    "abstract": "Analysis of deviations between trajectories of Lotka-Volterra model of competition between two species and G.F. Gause experimental time series on combined cultivation of Paramecium aurelia and Paramecium caudatum shows that with rather big probability there is no correspondence between model and experimental datasets. Testing of sets of deviations was provided on symmetry with. respect to origin (Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Lehmann-Rosenblatt, Wald-Wolfowitz, and Munn-Whitney criterions) and on existence/absence of serial correlation in sequences of residuals (Swed-Eisenhart and \"jumps up-jumps down\" tests).", 
    "abstract": "Semi-analytical solutions for the diffusive Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system with delay are considered in one and two-dimensional domains. The Galerkin method is applied, which approximates the spatial structure of both the predator and prey populations. This approach is used to obtain a lower-order, ordinary differential delay equation model for the system of governing delay partial differential equations. Steady-state and transient solutions and the region of parameter space, in which Hopf bifurcations occur, are all found. In some cases simple linear expressions are found as approximations, to describe steady-state solutions and the Hopf parameter regions. An asymptotic analysis for the periodic solution near the Hopf bifurcation point is performed for the one-dimensional domain. An excellent agreement is shown in comparisons between semi-analytical and numerical solutions of the governing equations.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper we analyze the effects of introducing the fractional-in-space operator into a Lotka-Volterra competitive model describing population super-diffusion. First, we study how cross super-diffusion influences the formation of spatial patterns: a linear stability analysis is carried out, showing that cross super-diffusion triggers Turing instabilities, whereas classical (self) super-diffusion does not. In addition we perform a weakly nonlinear analysis yielding a system of amplitude equations, whose study shows the stability of Turing steady states. A second goal of this contribution is to propose a fully adaptive multiresolution finite volume method that employs shifted Gr\u00fcnwald gradient approximations, and which is tailored for a larger class of systems involving fractional diffusion operators. The scheme is aimed at efficient dynamic mesh adaptation and substantial savings in computational burden. A numerical simulation of the model was performed near the instability boundaries, confirming the behavior predicted by our analysis.", 
    "abstract": "In this article we study the inverse problem of finding coefficients of Lotka-Volterra's equations on one given solution. The conditions of the uniqueness and existence of the inverse problem are found.", 
    "abstract": "The relationship between the Moran model and stochastic Lotka-Volterra competition (SLVC) model is explored via time scale separation arguments. For neutral systems the two are found to be equivalent at long times. For systems with selective pressure, their behavior differs. It is argued that the SLVC is preferable to the Moran model since in the SLVC population size is regulated by competition, rather than arbitrarily fixed as in the Moran model. As a consequence, ambiguities found in the Moran model associated with the introduction of more complex processes, such as selection, are avoided.", 
    "abstract": "We introduce a stochastic individual model for the spatial behavior of an animal population of dispersive and competitive species, considering various kinds of biological effects, such as heterogeneity of environmental conditions, mutual attractive or repulsive interactions between individuals or competition between them for resources. As a consequence of the study of the large population limit, global existence of a nonnegative weak solution to a multidimensional parabolic strongly coupled model of competing species is proved. The main new feature of the corresponding integro-differential equation is the nonlocal nonlinearity appearing in the diffusion terms, which may depend on the spatial densities of all population types. Moreover, the diffusion matrix is generally not strictly positive definite and the cross-diffusion effect allows for influences growing linearly with the subpopulations' sizes. We prove uniqueness of the finite measure-valued solution and give conditions under which the solution takes values in a functional space. We then make the competition kernels converge to a Dirac measure and obtain the existence of a solution to a locally competitive version of the previous equation. The techniques are essentially based on the underlying stochastic flow related to the dispersive part of the dynamics, and the use of suitable dual distances in the space of finite measures.", 
    "abstract": "Apart from interacting, prey and predators may also avoid each other by moving into refuges where they lack food, yet survive by switching to an energy-saving physiological state. Lotka-Volterra models of predator-prey interactions ignore this option. Therefore, we have modelled this game of 'joining versus opting out' by extending Lotka-Volterra models to include portions of populations not in interaction and with different energy dynamics. Given this setting, the prey's decisions to join or to opt out influence those of the predator and vice versa, causing the set of possible strategies to be complex and large. However, using game theory, we analysed and published two models showing (i) which strategies are best for the prey population given the predator's strategy, and (ii) which are best for prey and predator populations simultaneously. The predicted best strategies appear to match empirical observations on plant-inhabiting predator and prey mites. Here, we consider a plausible third model that does not take energy dynamics into account, but appears to yield contrasting predictions. This supports our assumption to extend Lotka-Volterra models with 'interaction-dependent' energy dynamics, but more work is required to prove that it is essential and that what is best for the population is also best for the individual.", 
    "abstract": "In this study we model population dynamics in a three-species food web with heterogeneous resources and intraguild predation by using a nonspatial Lotka-Volterra system with a density-dependent interaction of resource items. The model consists of two predators with an intraguild predation (IGP) relation competing for a common resource. The resource is subdivided into subpopulations of different quality that are distinguished by grazing rates of the two predators, contact rates between subpopulations and mortality rates. The proposed system describes an exchange of traits between species from distinct subpopulations by using a species interaction term. In particular, we examine the percentage of stable coexistence solutions versus resource carrying capacity and contact rates between distinct resource pools. We also present a numerical comparison of the percentage of stable food webs found for different numbers of subpopulations. While at high enrichment no stable coexistence was found in the IGP system with a single resource, our model predicts a stable coexistence of two IGP-related predators and resources at high and intermediate enrichment already at a low contact rate between subpopulations.", 
    "abstract": "Hairston, Slobodkin, and Smith conjectured that top down forces act on food chains, which opposed the previously accepted theory that bottom up forces exclusively dictate the dynamics of populations. We model food chains using the Lotka-Volterra predation model and derive sustainability constants which determine which species will persist or go extinct. Further, we show that the productivity of a sustainable food chain with even trophic levels is predator regulated, or top down, while a sustainable food chain with odd trophic levels is resource limited, which is bottom up, which is consistent with current ecological theory.", 
    "abstract": "Explaining the coexistence of multiple species in the competition and predation theatre has proven a great challenge. Traditional intraguild predation (IGP) models have only relatively small regions of stable coexistence of all species. Here, we investigate potential additional mechanisms that extend these regions of stable coexistence. We used a 3-species Lotka-Volterra system to which we added an interaction term to model a unidirectional facilitative relationship between the two predators in the IGP. In this modelling study the IG predator was able to precondition a part of the common resource by an instantaneous manipulation, which resulted in the immobilization of the resource species. This mechanism of immobilization facilitated the resource uptake by the IG prey and thus increased its growth rates even in the presence of the common predator. The facilitative relationship of the IG prey by the IG predator produced a stable coexistence of both predators even though the IG prey was an inferior competitor for a common resource, which cannot be attained with the traditional IGP models. Furthermore, our model predicted a 3-species stable coexistence even at high enrichment where no coexistence was found in the basic IGP model. Thus, we showed that diversity of resource traits could significantly alter emergent community patterns via shifts in exploitative competition of IGP-related predators. The described mechanism could potentially lead to a higher efficiency in exploitation of common resources and thus promote higher diversity in a real community.", 
    "abstract": "Host-parasite coevolution is generally believed to follow Red Queen dynamics consisting of ongoing oscillations in the frequencies of interacting host and parasite alleles. This belief is founded on previous theoretical work, which assumes infinite or constant population size. To what extent are such sustained oscillations realistic?\nHere, we use a related mathematical modeling approach to demonstrate that ongoing Red Queen dynamics is unlikely. In fact, they collapse rapidly when two critical pieces of realism are acknowledged: (i) population size fluctuations, caused by the antagonism of the interaction in concordance with the Lotka-Volterra relationship; and (ii) stochasticity, acting in any finite population. Together, these two factors cause fast allele fixation. Fixation is not restricted to common alleles, as expected from drift, but also seen for originally rare alleles under a wide parameter space, potentially facilitating spread of novel variants.\nOur results call for a paradigm shift in our understanding of host-parasite coevolution, strongly suggesting that these are driven by recurrent selective sweeps rather than continuous allele oscillations.", 
    "abstract": "Winnerless competition is analyzed in coupled maps with discrete temporal evolution of the Lotka-Volterra type of arbitrary dimension. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the appearance of structurally stable heteroclinic cycles as a function of the model parameters are deduced. It is shown that under such conditions winnerless competition dynamics is fully exhibited. Based on these conditions different cases characterizing low, intermediate, and high dimensions are therefore computationally recreated. An analytical expression for the residence times valid in the N-dimensional case is deduced and successfully compared with the simulations.", 
    "abstract": "Analyzing coexistence and survival scenarios of Lotka-Volterra (LV) networks in which the total biomass is conserved is of vital importance for the characterization of long-term dynamics of ecological communities. Here, we introduce a classification scheme for coexistence scenarios in these conservative LV models and quantify the extinction process by employing the Pfaffian of the network's interaction matrix. We illustrate our findings on global stability properties for general systems of four and five species and find a generalized scaling law for the extinction time.", 
    "abstract": "Dynamical behaviors of the competitive Lotka-Volterra system even for 3 species are not fully understood. In this paper, we study this problem from the perspective of the Lyapunov function. We construct explicitly the Lyapunov function using three examples of the competitive Lotka-Volterra system for the whole state space: (1) the general 2-species case, (2) a 3-species model, and (3) the model of May-Leonard. The basins of attraction for these examples are demonstrated, including cases with bistability and cyclical behavior. The first two examples are the generalized gradient system, where the energy dissipation may not follow the gradient of the Lyapunov function. In addition, under a new type of stochastic interpretation, the Lyapunov function also leads to the Boltzmann-Gibbs distribution on the final steady state when multiplicative noise is added.", 
    "abstract": "We consider the competitive population dynamics of two species described by the Lotka-Volterra model in the presence of spatial diffusion. The model is described by the diffusion coefficient (d(\u03b1)) and proliferation rate (r(\u03b1)) of the species \u03b1 (\u03b1 = 1,2 is the species label). Propagating wave front solutions in one dimension are investigated analytically and by numerical solutions. It is found that the wave profiles and wave speeds are determined by the speed parameters, v(\u03b1) \u2261 2 sqrt [d(\u03b1)r(\u03b1)], of the two species, and the phase diagrams for various inter- and intracompetitive scenarios are determined. The steady wave front speeds are obtained analytically via nonlinear dynamics analysis and verified by numerical solutions. The effect of the intermediate stationary state is investigated and propagating wave profiles beyond the simple Fisher wave fronts are revealed. The wave front speed of a species can display abrupt increase as its speed parameter is increased. In particular for the case in which both species are aggressive, our results show that the speed parameter is the deciding factor that determines the ultimate surviving species, in contrast to the case without diffusion in which the final surviving species is decided by its initial population advantage. Possible relations to the biological relevance of modeling cancer development and wound healing are also discussed.", 
    "abstract": "We propose an optimal control framework to describe intra-seasonal predator-prey interactions, which are characterized by a continuous-time dynamical model comprising predator and prey density, as well as the energy budget of the prey over the length of a season. The model includes a time-dependent decision variable for the prey, representing the portion of the prey population in time that is active, as opposed to diapausing (a state of physiological rest). The predator follows autonomous dynamics and accordingly it remains active during the season. The proposed model is a generalization of the classical Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model towards non-autonomous dynamics that furthermore includes the effect of an energy variable. The model has been inspired by a specific biological system of predatory mites (Acari: Phytoseiidae) and prey mites (so-called fruit-tree red spider mites) (Acari: Tetranychidae) that feed on leaves of apple trees--its parameters have been instantiated based on laboratory and field studies. The goal of the work is to understand the decisions of the prey mites to enter diapause (a state of physiological rest) given the dynamics of the predatory mites: this is achieved by solving an optimization problem hinging on the maximization of the prey population contribution to the next season. The main features of the optimal strategy for the prey are shown to be that (1) once in diapause, the prey does not become active again within the same season and hence diapause is an irreversible process; (2) for the vast majority of parameter space, the portion of prey individuals entering diapause within the season does not decrease in time; (3) with an increased number of predators, the optimal population strategy for the prey is to start diapause earlier and to enter diapause more gradually. This optimal population strategy will be studied for its ESS properties in a sequel to the work presented in this article.", 
    "abstract": "Populations of competing biological species exhibit a fascinating interplay between the nonlinear dynamics of evolutionary selection forces and random fluctuations arising from the stochastic nature of the interactions. The processes leading to extinction of species, whose understanding is a key component in the study of evolution and biodiversity, are influenced by both of these factors. Here, we investigate a class of stochastic population dynamics models based on generalized Lotka-Volterra systems. In the case of neutral stability of the underlying deterministic model, the impact of intrinsic noise on the survival of species is dramatic: It destroys coexistence of interacting species on a time scale proportional to the population size. We introduce a new method based on stochastic averaging which allows one to understand this extinction process quantitatively by reduction to a lower-dimensional effective dynamics. This is performed analytically for two highly symmetrical models and can be generalized numerically to more complex situations. The extinction probability distributions and other quantities of interest we obtain show excellent agreement with simulations.", 
    "abstract": "Kinetic Monte Carlo simulations are used to study the stochastic two-species Lotka-Volterra model on a square lattice. For certain values of the model parameters, the system constitutes an excitable medium: travelling pulses and rotating spiral waves can be excited. Stable solitary pulses travel with constant (modulo stochastic fluctuations) shape and speed along a periodic lattice. The spiral waves observed persist sometimes for hundreds of rotations, but they are ultimately unstable and break-up (because of fluctuations and interactions between neighboring fronts) giving rise to complex dynamic behavior in which numerous small spiral waves rotate and interact with each other. It is interesting that travelling pulses and spiral waves can be exhibited by the model even for completely immobile species, due to the non-local reaction kinetics.", 
    "abstract": "The dynamic economic behavior in most integrated assessment models linking economic growth to climate change involves a differential equation solved by Jacob Bernoulli in 1695. Using the dynamic integrated climate economy (DICE) model and freezing exogenous variables at initial values, this dynamic is shown to produce implausible projections on a 60-year time frame. If world capital started at US$1, after 60 years the world economy would be indistinguishable from one starting with 10 times the current capitalization. Such behavior points to uncertainty at the level of the fundamental dynamics, and suggests that discussions of discounting, utility, damage functions, and ethics should be conducted within a more general modeling vocabulary. Lotka Volterra dynamics is proposed as an alternative with greater prime facie plausibility. With near universality, economists assume that economic growth will go on forever. Lotka Volterra dynamics alert us to the possibility of collapse.", 
    "abstract": "For a population with any given number of types, we construct a new multivariate Moran process with frequency-dependent selection and establish, analytically, a correspondence to equilibrium Lotka-Volterra phenomenology. This correspondence, on the one hand, allows us to infer the phenomenology of our Moran process based on much simpler Lokta-Volterra phenomenology and, on the other, allows us to study Lotka-Volterra dynamics within the finite populations of a Moran process. Applications to community ecology, population genetics, and evolutionary game theory are discussed.", 
    "abstract": "We consider a system of delay differential equations modeling the predator-prey ecoepidemic dynamics with a transmissible disease in the predator population. The time lag in the delay terms represents the predator gestation period. We analyze essential mathematical features of the proposed model such as local and global stability and in addition study the bifurcations arising in some selected situations. Threshold values for a few parameters determining the feasibility and stability conditions of some equilibria are discovered and similarly a threshold is identified for the disease to die out. The parameter thresholds under which the system admits a Hopf bifurcation are investigated both in the presence of zero and non-zero time lag. Numerical simulations support our theoretical analysis.", 
    "abstract": "We study the existence, uniqueness, and asymptotic stability of time periodic traveling wave solutions to a periodic diffusive Lotka-Volterra competition system. Under certain conditions, we prove that there exists a maximal wave speed c(*) such that for each wave speed c \u2264 c(*), there is a time periodic traveling wave connecting two semi-trivial periodic solutions of the corresponding kinetic system. It is shown that such a traveling wave is unique modulo translation and is monotone with respect to its co-moving frame coordinate. We also show that the traveling wave solutions with wave speed c < c(*) are asymptotically stable in certain sense. In addition, we establish the nonexistence of time periodic traveling waves for nonzero speed c > c(*).", 
    "abstract": "With the aid of Volterra multiplier, we study ecological equations for both tree system and cycle system. We obtain a set of sufficient conditions for the ultimate boundedness to nonautonomous n-dimensional Lotka-Volterra tree systems with continuous time delay. The criteria are applicable to cooperative model, competition model, and predator-prey model. As to cycle system, we consider a three-dimensional predator-prey Lotka-Volterra system. In order to get a condition under which the system is globally asymptotic stable, we obtain a Volterra multiplier, so that in a parameter region the system is with the Volterra multiplier it is globally stable. We have also proved that in regions in which the condition is not satisfied, the system is unstable or at least it is not globally stable. Therefore, we say that the three-dimensional cycle system is with global bifurcation.", 
    "abstract": "A complete classification for the global dynamics of a Lotka-Volterra two species competition model with seasonal succession is obtained via the stability analysis of equilibria and the theory of monotone dynamical systems. The effects of two death rates in the bad season and the proportion of the good season on the competition outcomes are also discussed.", 
    "abstract": "The article presents the solutions of Lotka-Volterra equations of fractional-order time derivatives with the help of analytical method of nonlinear problem called the homotopy perturbation method (HPM). By using initial values, the explicit solutions of predator and prey populations for different particular cases have been derived. The numerical solutions show that only a few iterations are needed to obtain accurate approximate solutions. The method performs extremely well in terms of efficiency and simplicity to solve this historical biological model.", 
    "abstract": "This comment addresses critics on the claimed stability of solution to the accelerated-predator-satiety Lotka-Volterra predator-prey problem, proposed by Dubey al. (2010. A solution to the accelerated-predator-satiety Lotka-Volterra predator-prey problem using Boubaker polynomial expansion scheme. Journal of Theoretical Biology 264, 154-160). Critics are based on incompatibilities between the claimed asymptotic behavior and the presumed Malthusian growth of prey population in absence of predator.", 
    "abstract": "Continuous attractors of Lotka-Volterra recurrent neural networks (LV RNNs) with infinite neurons are studied in this brief. A continuous attractor is a collection of connected equilibria, and it has been recognized as a suitable model for describing the encoding of continuous stimuli in neural networks. The existence of the continuous attractors depends on many factors such as the connectivity and the external inputs of the network. A continuous attractor can be stable or unstable. It is shown in this brief that a LV RNN can possess multiple continuous attractors if the synaptic connections and the external inputs are Gussian-like in shape. Moreover, both stable and unstable continuous attractors can coexist in a network. Explicit expressions of the continuous attractors are calculated. Simulations are employed to illustrate the theory.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding how complexity persists in nature is a long-standing goal of ecologists. In theoretical ecology, local stability is a widely used measure of ecosystem persistence and has made a major contribution to the ecosystem stability-complexity debate over the last few decades. However, permanence is coming to be regarded as a more satisfactory definition of ecosystem persistence and has relatively recently become available as a tool for assessing the global stability of Lotka-Volterra communities. Here we document positive relationships between permanence and Lotka-Volterra food web complexity and report a positive correlation between the probability of local stability and permanence. We investigate further the frequency of discrepancy (attributed to fragile systems that are locally stable but not permanent or locally unstable systems that are permanent and have cyclic or chaotic dynamics), associate non-permanence with the local stability or instability of equilibria on the boundary of the state-space, and investigate how these vary with aspects of ecosystem complexity. We find that locally stable interior equilibria tend to have all locally unstable boundary equilibria. Since a locally stable boundary is inconsistent with permanent dynamics, this can explain the observed positive correlation between local interior stability and permanence. Our key finding is that, at least in Lotka-Volterra model ecosystems, local stability may be a better measure of persistence than previously thought.", 
    "abstract": "The autochthonous tick Boophilus decoloratus, and the invasive species Bo. microplus, the tick most threatening the livestock industry in Africa, show complex interactions in their interspecific rivalry. This study was conducted to specify the conditions under which the two competitors can co-exist in equilibrium, and to provide insight into their climate-dependant parapatric distribution in Tanzania. A model of the Lotka-Volterra type was used, taking into account population dispersal and interactions of various kinds. If the model allowed for immunity-mediated competition on cattle, reproductive interference, and an external mortality factor, it explained fairly well the field observation that the borderline between these ticks loosely follows the 22-23\u00b0C isotherm and the 58 mm isohyet (i.e. ~700 mm of annual rainfall total). Simulations fully compatible with the pattern of real co-existing populations of Bo. decoloratus and Bo. microplus, characterized by a pronounced population density trough and mutual exclusion of the two ticks on cattle in an intermediary zone between their distributional ranges, were, however, achieved only if the model also implemented a hypothetical factor responsible for some mortality upon encounter of one tick with the other, interpretable as an interaction through a shared pathogen(s). This study also demonstrated the importance of non-cattle hosts, enabling the autochthon to avoid competition with Bo. microplus, for the behaviour of the modelled system. The simulations indicate that a substantial reduction of wildlife habitats and consequently of Bo. decoloratus refugia, may accelerate the replacement of Bo. decoloratus with Bo. microplus much faster than climatic changes might do.", 
    "abstract": "The competitive layer model (CLM) can be described by an optimization problem. The problem can be further formulated by an energy function, called the CLM energy function, in the subspace of nonnegative orthant. The set of minimum points of the CLM energy function forms the set of solutions of the CLM problem. Solving the CLM problem means to find out such solutions. Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) can be used to implement the CLM to solve the CLM problem. The key point is to make the set of minimum points of the CLM energy function just correspond to the set of stable attractors of the recurrent neural networks. This paper proposes to use Lotka-Volterra RNNs (LV RNNs) to implement the CLM. The contribution of this paper is to establish foundations of implementing the CLM by LV RNNs. The contribution mainly contains three parts. The first part is on the CLM energy function. Necessary and sufficient conditions for minimum points of the CLM energy function are established by detailed study. The second part is on the convergence of the proposed model of the LV RNNs. It is proven that interesting trajectories are convergent. The third part is the most important. It proves that the set of stable attractors of the proposed LV RNN just equals the set of minimum points of the CLM energy function in the nonnegative orthant. Thus, the LV RNNs can be used to solve the problem of the CLM. It is believed that by establishing such basic rigorous theories, more and interesting applications of the CLM can be found.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, an analytical method is introduced for the identification of predator-prey populations time-dependent evolution in a Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model which takes into account the concept of accelerated-predator-satiety. Oppositely to most of the predator-prey problem models, the actual model does not suppose that the predation is strictly proportional to the prey density. In reference to some recent experimental results and particularly to the conclusions of May (1973) about predators which are 'never not hungry', an accelerated satiety function is matched with the initial conventional equations. Solutions are plotted and compared to some relevant ones. The obtained trends are in good agreement with many standard Lotka-Volterra solutions except for the asymptotic behaviour.", 
    "abstract": "We are interested in the long time behavior of a two-type density-dependent biological population conditioned on non-extinction, in both cases of competition or weak cooperation between the two species. This population is described by a stochastic Lotka-Volterra system, obtained as limit of renormalized interacting birth and death processes. The weak cooperation assumption allows the system not to blow up. We study the existence and uniqueness of a quasi-stationary distribution, that is convergence to equilibrium conditioned on non-extinction. To this aim we generalize in two-dimensions spectral tools developed for one-dimensional generalized Feller diffusion processes. The existence proof of a quasi-stationary distribution is reduced to the one for a d-dimensional Kolmogorov diffusion process under a symmetry assumption. The symmetry we need is satisfied under a local balance condition relying the ecological rates. A novelty is the outlined relation between the uniqueness of the quasi-stationary distribution and the ultracontractivity of the killed semi-group. By a comparison between the killing rates for the populations of each type and the one of the global population, we show that the quasi-stationary distribution can be either supported by individuals of one (the strongest one) type or supported by individuals of the two types. We thus highlight two different long time behaviors depending on the parameters of the model: either the model exhibits an intermediary time scale for which only one type (the dominant trait) is surviving, or there is a positive probability to have coexistence of the two species.", 
