    "abstract": "The microenvironment of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is characterized by hypoxia and increased lactate production. However, the impact of hypoxia and lactate metabolism on ccRCC remains incompletely understood. In this study, a new molecular subtype is developed based on hypoxia-related genes (HRGs) and lactate metabolism-related genes (LMRGs), aiming to create a tool that can predict the survival rate, immune microenvironment status, and responsiveness to treatment of ccRCC patients.\nWe obtained RNA-seq data and clinical information of patients with ccRCC from TCGA and GEO. HRGs and LMRGs are sourced from the Molecular Signatures Database. Integrating 10 machine learning algorithms and 101 frameworks, we constructed a prognostic model related to hypoxia and lactate metabolism. Its accuracy and reliability are evaluated through constructing prognostic nomograms, drawing ROC curves, and validating with clinical datasets. Additionally, risk subgroups are evaluated based on functional enrichment, tumor mutational burden (TMB), immune cell infiltration degree, and immune checkpoint expression level. Finally, we evaluate the responsiveness of risk subgroups to immunotherapy and determine personalized drugs for specific risk subgroups.\n85 valuable prognostic genes were screened out. Functional enrichment analysis shows that the group with high-risk hypoxia and lactate metabolism-related genes scores (HLMRGS) is mainly involved in the activation of immune-related activities, while the low risk HLMRGS group is more active in metabolic and tumor-related pathways. At the same time, differences in the cellular functional states in the tumor microenvironment between the high risk HLMRGS group and the low risk HLMRGS group were observed. Finally, potential drugs for specific risk subgroups were determined.\nWe have developed a novel prognostic signature that integrates hypoxia and lactate metabolism. It is expected to become an effective tool for prognosis prediction, immunotherapy and personalized medicine of ccRCC.", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to develop and prospectively validate radiomic models based on MRI to predict lymphovascular invasion (LVI) status in patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. A total of 225 patients with HER2-positive breast cancer who preoperatively underwent breast MRI were selected, forming the training set (n\u2009=\u200999 LVI-positive, n\u2009=\u2009126 LVI-negative). A prospective validation cohort included 130 patients with breast cancer from the Affiliated Zhongshan Hospital of Dalian University (n\u2009=\u200957 LVI-positive, n\u2009=\u200973 LVI-negative). A total of 390 radiomic features and eight conventional radiological characteristics were extracted. For the optimum feature selection phase, the LASSO regression model with tenfold cross-validation (CV) was employed to identify features with non-zero coefficients. The conventional radiological (CR) model was determined based on visual morphological (VM) features and the optimal radiomic features correlated with LVI, identified through multivariate logistic analyses. Subsequently, various machine learning (ML) models were developed using algorithms such as support vector machine (SVM), k-nearest neighbor (KNN), gradient boosting machine (GBM), and random forest (RF). The performance of ML and CR models. The results show that the AUC of the CR model in the training and validation sets were 0.81 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.74-0.86) and 0.82 (95% CI, 0.69-0.89), respectively. The ML model achieved the best performance, with AUCs of 0.96 (95% CI, 0.99-1.00) in the training set and 0.95 (95% CI, 0.89-0.96) in the validation set. There were significant differences between the CR and ML models in predicting LVI status. Our study demonstrated that the machine learning models exhibited superior performance in predicting LVI status based on pretreatment MRI compared to the CR model, which does not necessarily rely on a priori knowledge of visual morphology.", 
    "abstract": "Prediction of outcome after stroke is critical for treatment planning and resource allocation but is complicated by fluctuations during the first days after onset. We propose a machine learning model that can provide hourly predictions based on the integration of continuous variables acquired within 72\u2009h of hospital admission.\nWe analyzed 2492 admissions for ischemic stroke in the Geneva University Hospital from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2021, amounting to 2'131'752 unique data points. We developed a transformer model that continuously included clinical, physiological, imaging, and biological data recorded within 72\u2009h of admission. This model was trained to generate hourly predictions of mortality and morbidity. Shapley additive explanations were used to identify the most relevant predictors to explain outcomes for each patient. The MIMIC-III database was used for external validation.\nOur transformer model predicts mortality, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.830 (95% CI 0.763-0.885) on admission, reaching 0.893 (95% CI 0.839-0.933) 72\u2009h later for a 3-month outcome. Validated in an independent cohort, it outperforms all static models. Based on their mean explanatory weights, the top predictors included continuous clinical evaluation, baseline patient characteristics, timing from admission to acute treatment, and markers of inflammation and organ dysfunction.\nThe performance of our transformer model demonstrates the potential of machine learning models integrating clinical, physiological, imaging, and biological variables over time after stroke. The clinical applicability of our model is further strengthened by access to hourly updated predictions along with accompanying explanations.\nStroke is the most frequent cause of disability in industrialized countries. To determine the best treatment and allocate resources, an early and accurate prediction of outcome is essential. Although modern stroke units gather a continuous stream of data, existing tools for outcome prediction are rarely used as they are static and fail to adapt to the evolving condition of the patient.We developed a machine learning model, a computer system learning from existing data, to provide real-time predictions of in-hospital mortality and 3-month outcomes. Our model was able to provide accurate hourly prediction of outcome based on regularly updated clinical data obtained from the patient.This study demonstrates the potential of integrating the continuous data stream recorded in the electronic health record after stroke. Similar predictive models could help personalize treatment planning, empower patients and their families through counseling, and facilitate resource allocation.", 
    "abstract": "The principle of trust has been placed at the centre as an attitude for engaging with clinical machine learning systems. However, the notions of trust and distrust remain fiercely debated in the philosophical and ethical literature. In this article, we proceed on a structural level ex negativo as we aim to analyse the concept of \"institutional distrustworthiness\" to achieve a proper diagnosis of how we should not engage with medical machine learning. First, we begin with several examples that hint at the emergence of a climate of distrust in the context of medical machine learning. Second, we introduce the concept of institutional trustworthiness based on an expansion of Hawley's commitment account. Third, we argue that institutional opacity can undermine the trustworthiness of medical institutions and can lead to new forms of testimonial injustices. Finally, we focus on possible building blocks for repairing institutional distrustworthiness.", 
    "abstract": "Two-dimensional materials are a class of atomically thin materials with assorted electronic and quantum properties. Accurate identification of layer thickness, especially for a single monolayer, is crucial for their characterization. This characterization process, however, is often time-consuming, requiring highly skilled researchers and expensive equipment like atomic force microscopy. This project aims to streamline the identification process by using machine learning to analyze optical images and quickly determine layer thickness. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of three machine learning models - SegNet, 1D U-Net, and 2D U-Net- in accurately identifying monolayers in microscopic images. Additionally, we explore labeling and image processing techniques to determine the most effective and accessible method for identifying layer thickness in this class of materials.", 
    "abstract": "Highly accurate nighttime cloud detection in satellite imagery is challenging due to the absence of visible to near-infrared (0.38-3\u00a0\u03bcm, VNI) data, which is critical for distinguishing clouds from other ground features. Fortunately, Machine learning (ML) techniques can more effectively leverage the limited wavelength information and show high-accuracy cloud detection based on vast sample volume. However, accurately distinguishing cloud pixels solely through thermal infrared bands (8-14\u00a0\u03bcm, TIR) is challenging, and acquiring numerous, high-quality and representative samples of nighttime images for ML proves to be unattainable in practice. Given the thermal infrared radiation transmission process and the fact that daytime and nighttime have the same source of radiance in TIR, we propose a sample generation idea that uses daytime images to provide samples of nighttime cloud detection, which is different from the traditional sample construction methods (e.g., manually label, simulation and transfer learning method), and can obtain samples effectively. Based on this idea, nighttime cloud detection experiments were carried out for MODIS, GF-5 (02) and Himawari-8 satellites, respectively. The results were validated by the Lidar cloud product and manual labels and show that our nighttime cloud detection result has higher accuracy than MYD35 (78.17%) and the ML model trained by nighttime manual labels (75.86%). The accuracy of the three sensors is 82.19%, 88.71%, and 79.34%, respectively. Moreover, we validated and discussed the performance of our algorithm on various surface types (vegetation, urban, barren and water). The results revealed that the accuracy of the three sensors over barren was found to be poor and varied with surface types but overall high. Our study can provide a novel perspective on nighttime cloud detection of muti-spectral satellite imagery.", 
    "abstract": "Determining the optimal timing for subsequent water flooding in Alkali-Surfactant-Polymer (ASP) flooding is essential to maximizing both the technical and economic outcomes of oilfield blocks. This study identified eight critical parameters that influence the benefits of ASP flooding and established parameter ranges based on data from completed blocks and actual field measurements. The optimal timing for subsequent water flooding was determined by evaluating cumulative net profit variations throughout the ASP flooding lifecycle. Given the complexity and high-dimensional nature of evaluating multiple parameters across diverse blocks, a machine learning-driven optimization model was developed. This model enhances work efficiency by automating complex analyses. However, predictive uncertainties and limitations remain due to the variability in oilfield development and the potential for unpredictable changes in reservoir conditions, external market factors and so on, which may affect the model's results. The model was applied to six blocks in the Daqing oilfield currently in the chemical flooding phase, where injection schemes, such as extending the polymer slug, were adjusted according to the model's optimized results. These adjustments yielded an increase in cumulative net profit of 224.9\u00a0million CNY compared to the original scheme, with a potential total increase of 752.1\u00a0million CNY by the end of the flooding process.", 
    "abstract": "Predicting rainfall is a challenging and critical task due to its significant impact on society. Timely and accurate predictions are essential for minimizing human and financial losses. The dependence of approximately 60% of agricultural land in India on monsoon rainfall implies the crucial nature of accurate rainfall prediction. Precise rainfall forecasts can facilitate early preparedness for disasters associated with heavy rains, enabling the public and government to take necessary precautions. In the North-Western Himalayas, where meteorological data are limited, the need for improved accuracy in traditional modeling methods for rainfall forecasting is pressing. To address this, our study proposes the application of advanced machine learning (ML) algorithms, including random forest (RF), support vector regression (SVR), artificial neural network (ANN), and k-nearest neighbour (KNN) along with various deep learning (DL) algorithms such as long short-term memory (LSTM), bi-directional LSTM, deep LSTM, gated recurrent unit (GRU), and simple recurrent neural network (RNN). These advanced techniques hold the potential to significantly improve the accuracy of rainfall prediction, offering hope for more reliable forecasts. Additionally, time series techniques, including autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) and trigonometric, Box-Cox transform, arma errors, trend, and seasonal components (TBATS), are proposed for predicting rainfall across the altitudinal gradients of India's North-Western Himalayas. This approach can potentially revolutionise how we approach rainfall forecasting, ushering in a new era of accuracy and reliability. The effectiveness and accuracy of the proposed algorithms were assessed using meteorological data obtained from six weather stations at different elevations spanning from 1980 to 2021. The results indicate that DL methods exhibit the highest accuracy in predicting rainfall, as measured by the root mean squared error (RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE), followed by ML algorithms and time series techniques. Among the DL algorithms, the accuracy order was bi-directional LSTM, LSTM, RNN, deep LSTM, and GRU. For the ML algorithms, the accuracy order was ANN, KNN, SVR, and RF. These findings suggest that altitude significantly affects the accuracy of the models, highlighting the need for additional weather stations in this mountainous region to enhance the precision of rainfall prediction.", 
    "abstract": "Automatic analysis of facial expressions has emerged as a prominent research area in the past decade. Facial expressions serve as crucial indicators for understanding human behavior, enabling the identification and assessment of positive and negative emotions. Moreover, facial expressions provide insights into various aspects of mental activities, social connections, and physiological information. Currently, most facial expression detection systems rely on cameras and wearable devices. However, these methods have drawbacks, including privacy concerns, issues with poor lighting and line of sight blockage, difficulties in training with longer video sequences, computational complexities, and disruptions to daily routines. To address these challenges, this study proposes a novel and privacy-preserving human behavior recognition system that utilizes Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) radar combined with Machine Learning (ML) techniques for classifying facial expressions. Specifically, the study focuses on five common facial expressions: Happy, Sad, Fear, Surprise, and Neutral. The recorded data is obtained in the form of a Micro-Doppler signal, and state-of-the-art ML models such as Super Learner, Linear Discriminant Analysis, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbor, Long Short-Term Memory, and Logistic Regression are employed to extract relevant features. These extracted features from the radar data are then fed into ML models for classification. The results show a highly promising classification accuracy of 91%. The future applications of the proposed work will lead to advancements in technology, healthcare, security, and communication, thereby improving overall human well-being and societal functioning.", 
    "abstract": "Early and accurate diagnosis is crucial to prevent disease development and define therapeutic strategies. Due to predominantly unspecific symptoms, diagnosis of autoimmune diseases (AID) is notoriously challenging. Clinical decision support systems (CDSS) are a promising method with the potential to enhance and expedite precise diagnostics by physicians. However, due to the difficulties of integrating and encoding multi-omics data with clinical values, as well as a lack of standardization, such systems are often limited to certain data types. Accordingly, even sophisticated data models fall short when making accurate disease diagnoses and presenting data analyses in a user-friendly form. Therefore, the integration of various data types is not only an opportunity but also a competitive advantage for research and industry. We have developed an integration pipeline to enable the use of machine learning for patient classification based on multi-omics data in combination with clinical values and laboratory results. The application of our framework resulted in up to 96% prediction accuracy of autoimmune diseases with machine learning models. Our results deliver insights into autoimmune disease research and have the potential to be adapted for applications across disease conditions.", 
    "abstract": "The significance of rigorous optimization techniques in antenna engineering has grown significantly in recent years. For many design tasks, parameter tuning must be conducted globally, presenting a challenge due to associated computational costs. The popular bio-inspired routines often necessitate thousands of merit function calls to converge, generating prohibitive expenses whenever the design process relies on electromagnetic (EM) simulation models. Surrogate-assisted methods offer acceleration, yet constructing reliable metamodels is hindered in higher-dimensional spaces and systems with highly nonlinear characteristics. This work suggests an innovative technique for global antenna optimization embedded within a machine-learning framework. It involves iteratively refined kriging surrogates and particle swarm optimization for generating infill points. The search process operates within a reduced-dimensionality region established through fast global sensitivity analysis. Domain confinement enables the creation of accurate behavioral models using limited training data, resulting in low CPU costs for optimization. Additional savings are realized by employing variable-resolution EM simulations, where low-fidelity models are utilized during the global search stage (including sensitivity analysis), and high-fidelity ones are reserved for final (gradient-based) tuning of antenna parameters. Comprehensive verification demonstrates the consistent performance of the proposed procedure, its superiority over benchmark techniques, and the relevance of the mechanisms embedded into the algorithm for enhancing search process reliability, design quality, and computational efficiency.", 
    "abstract": "Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) has gained significant attention for its ability to detect environmental contaminants with high sensitivity and specificity. The cost-effectiveness and potential portability of the technique further enhance its appeal for widespread application. However, challenges such as the management of voluminous quantities of high-dimensional data, its capacity to detect low-concentration targets in the presence of environmental interferents, and the navigation of the complex relationships arising from overlapping spectral peaks have emerged. In response, there is a growing trend toward the use of machine learning (ML) approaches that encompass multivariate tools for effective SERS data analysis. This comprehensive review delves into the detailed steps needed to be considered when applying ML techniques for SERS analysis. Additionally, we explored a range of environmental applications where different ML tools were integrated with SERS for the detection of pathogens and (in)organic pollutants in environmental samples. We sought to comprehend the intricate considerations and benefits associated with ML in these contexts. Additionally, the review explores the future potential of synergizing SERS with ML for real-world applications.", 
    "abstract": "Asthma exacerbations in children pose a significant burden on healthcare systems and families. While traditional risk assessment tools exist, artificial intelligence (AI) offers the potential for enhanced prediction models.\nThis study aims to systematically evaluate and quantify the performance of machine learning (ML) algorithms in predicting the risk of hospitalisation and emergency department (ED) admission for acute asthma exacerbations in children.\nWe performed a systematic review with meta-analysis, following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The risk of bias and applicability for eligible studies was assessed according to the prediction model study risk of bias assessment tool (PROBAST). The protocol of our systematic review was registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews.\nOur meta-analysis included seven articles encompassing a total of 17 ML-based prediction models. We found a pooled area under the curve (AUC) of 0.67 (95% CI 0.61-0.73; I\nThis study provides the most comprehensive assessment of AI-based algorithms in predicting paediatric asthma exacerbations to date. While these models show promise and ML-based hospitalisation prediction models, in particular, demonstrate good accuracy, further external validation is needed before these models can be reliably implemented in real-life clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate and early disease detection is crucial for improving patient care, but traditional diagnostic methods often fail to identify diseases in their early stages, leading to delayed treatment outcomes. Early diagnosis using blood derivatives as a source for biomarkers is particularly important for managing Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study introduces a novel approach for the precise and ultrasensitive detection of multiple core AD biomarkers (A\u03b2", 
    "abstract": "To create a machine learning predictive model combining PI-RADS score, PSA density, and clinical variables to predict clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa).\nWe evaluated a cohort of patients who underwent prostate biopsy for suspected prostate cancer (PCa) in New Zealand, Australia, and Switzerland. We collected data on age, body mass index (BMI), PSA level, prostate volume, PSA density (PSAD), PI-RADS scores, previous biopsy, and corresponding histology results. The dataset was divided into derivation (training) and validation (test) sets using random splits. An independent dataset was obtained from the Harvard Dataverse for external validation. A cohort of 1272 patients was analyzed. We fitted a Lasso model, XGBoost, and LightGBM to the training set and assessed their accuracy.\nAll models demonstrated ROC AUC values ranging from 0.830 to 0.851. LightGBM was considered the superior model, with an ROC of 0.851 [95%CI: 0.804 - 0.897] in the test set and 0.818 [95% CI: 0.798 - 0.831] in the external dataset. The most important variable was PI-RADS, followed by PSA density, history of previous biopsy, age, and BMI.\nWe developed a predictive model for detecting csPCa that exhibited a high ROC-AUC value for internal and external validations. This suggests that the integration of the clinical parameters outperformed each individual predictor. Additionally, the model demonstrated good calibration metrics, indicative of a more balanced model than the existing models.", 
    "abstract": "Clinical pathways are sequences of events followed during the clinical care of a group of patients who meet pre-defined criteria. They have many applications ranging from healthcare evaluation and optimization to clinical decision support. These pathways can be discovered from existing healthcare data, in particular with machine learning which is a family of methods used to learn patterns from data. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the literature concerning the use of machine learning methods for clinical pathway discovery from patient data.\nGuided by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) method , we conducted a systematic review of the existing literature. We searched 6 databases, i.e., ACM Digital Library, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, PubMed, IEEE Xplore, and Scopus spanning from January 2004 to December 2023 using search terms pertinent to clinical pathways and their development. Subsequently, the retrieved papers were analyzed to assess their relevance to the scope of this study.\nIn total, 131 papers that met the specified inclusion criteria were identified. These papers expressed diverse motivations behind data-driven clinical pathway discovery ranging from knowledge discovery to conformance checking with established clinical guidelines (derived from existing literature and clinical experts). Notably, the predominant methods employed (67.2%, n=88) involved unsupervised machine learning methods, such as clustering and process mining.\nRelevant clinical pathways can be discovered from patient data using machine learning methods, with the desirable potential to aid clinical decision-making in healthcare. However, to reach this objective, the methods used to discover pathways should be reproducible, and rigorous performance evaluation by clinical experts needs to be conducted for validation.", 
    "abstract": "This study addresses the critical public health issue of fecal coliform contamination in the four major rivers in South Korea (Han, Nakdong, Geum, and Yeongsan rivers) by applying advanced machine learning (ML) algorithms combined with Explainable Artificial Intelligence to enhance both prediction accuracy and interpretability. Both traditional and machine learning models often face challenges in accurately estimating fecal coliform levels due to the complexity of environmental variables and data limitations. To address this limitation, we employed two tree-based models (i.e., random forest [RF] and extreme gradient boost [XGBoost]), and two neural network models (i.e., deep neural network and convolutional neural network [CNN]). we employed the use of Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) to facilitate a more comprehensive understanding of the influence exerted by each variable on the model's predictions. Based on a comprehensive dataset collected from the National Institute of Environmental Research covering 16 water quality parameters and meteorological data from 2014 to 2022, our study improved the accuracy of fecal coliform estimation using XGBoost and CNN models. The optimal result was obtained using XGBoost, which had a validation Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency of 0.597 in the Han River. In addition, this study provides insights into the significant factors influencing fecal coliform concentrations across different river environments using the SHAP model. The results indicated that the XGBoost model provided superior estimation accuracy and explanations for the contributions of variables. The SHAP results provided the precise contribution of each water quality variable that affected the fecal estimation results using the XGBoost model. The study facilitates an improved understanding of the relationship between water quality variables and fecal coliform contamination mechanisms in the four major rivers in South Korea.", 
    "abstract": "Natural killer cells, interconnected with patient prognosis and treatment response, play a pivotal role in the tumor immune microenvironment and may serve as potential novel predictive biomarkers for renal cell carcinoma.\nClear cell renal cell carcinoma transcriptome data and the corresponding clinical data were obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Single-cell sequencing data were sourced from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. A risk model was established by integrating ten different machine learning algorithms, which resulted in 101 combined models. The model with the highest average C-index was selected for further analysis, and was assessed using nomogram, time-dependent receiver operating characteristics (ROC) and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. The differences in immune infiltration fractions, clinicopathological features, and response to various targeted therapies and immunotherapy between high- and low-risk groups were investigated. Furthermore, qRT-PCR, IHC, colony formation test, CCK8 assay and flow cytometry were conducted to explore the expression pattern and function of ARHGAP9 in our own patient samples and renal cancer cell lines.\nTotally, 156 NK cell-related genes and 5189 prognosis-related genes were identified, and 36 genes of their intersection demonstrated prognostic value. A risk model with 18 genes was established by Coxboost plus plsRcox, which can accurately predict the prognosis of ccRCC patients. Significant correlations were determined between risk score and tumor malignancy and immune cell infiltration. Meanwhile, a combination of tumor mutation burden plus risk score could have higher accuracy of predicting clinical outcomes. Moreover, high-risk group patients were more likely to be responsive to targeted therapy but show no response to immunotherapy.\nIntricate signaling interactions between NK cells and various cellular subgroups were depicted and the developmental trajectory of NK cells was elucidated. A NK cells-related risk model was established, which can provide reliable prognostic information and identified patients with more probability of benefiting from therapy.", 
    "abstract": "A crucial issue in forensics is determining the post-mortem interval (PMI), the time between death and the finding of a body. Despite various methods already employed for its estimation, only approximate values are currently achievable. Vitreous humor (VH) is an avascular tissue between the lens and the retina, mainly composed by a collagen fibers network, hyaluronic acid, and hyalocytes. Recently, it has received interest in forensic medicine, being easy to collect and susceptible to low microbiological contamination and putrefaction. Based on this evidence and thanks to the ability of Attenuated Total Reflectance - Fourier Transform InfraRed (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy to perform fast analyses on a minimal sample amount, in this study, a new analytical approach to reliably estimate PMI is proposed combining ATR-FTIR analysis of VH human samples with multivariate statistical procedures, such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Partial Least Squares-Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA), for discriminant classification. Regression procedures, including Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR), were performed: extremely positive results were obtained, and the most discriminant spectral features were highlighted (peaks at 1665, 1630, 1585, 1400, 1220, 1200, 1120, 854, 835, and 740\u00a0cm", 
    "abstract": "The underdiagnosis of cognitive impairment hinders timely intervention of dementia. Health professionals working in the community play a critical role in the early detection of cognitive impairment, yet still face several challenges such as a lack of suitable tools, necessary training, and potential stigmatization.\nThis study explored a novel application integrating psychometric methods with data science techniques to model subtle inconsistencies in questionnaire response data for early identification of cognitive impairment in community environments.\nThis study analyzed questionnaire response data from participants aged 50 years and older in the Health and Retirement Study (waves 8-9, n=12,942). Predictors included low-quality response indices generated using the graded response model from four brief questionnaires (optimism, hopelessness, purpose in life, and life satisfaction) assessing aspects of overall well-being, a focus of health professionals in communities. The primary and supplemental predicted outcomes were current cognitive impairment derived from a validated criterion and dementia or mortality in the next ten years. Seven predictive models were trained, and the performance of these models was evaluated and compared.\nThe multilayer perceptron exhibited the best performance in predicting current cognitive impairment. In the selected four questionnaires, the area under curve values for identifying current cognitive impairment ranged from 0.63 to 0.66 and was improved to 0.71 to 0.74 when combining the low-quality response indices with age and gender for prediction. We set the threshold for assessing cognitive impairment risk in the tool based on the ratio of underdiagnosis costs to overdiagnosis costs, and a ratio of 4 was used as the default choice. Furthermore, the tool outperformed the efficiency of age or health-based screening strategies for identifying individuals at high risk for cognitive impairment, particularly in the 50- to 59-year and 60- to 69-year age groups. The tool is available on a portal website for the public to access freely.\nWe developed a novel prediction tool that integrates psychometric methods with data science to facilitate \"passive or backend\" cognitive impairment assessments in community settings, aiming to promote early cognitive impairment detection. This tool simplifies the cognitive impairment assessment process, making it more adaptable and reducing burdens. Our approach also presents a new perspective for using questionnaire data: leveraging, rather than dismissing, low-quality data.", 
    "abstract": "Proteomics can be used to assess individual protein abundances, which could reflect genotypic and environmental effects and potentially predict grain/malt quality. In this study, 79 barley grain samples (genotype-location-year combinations) from Californian multi-environment trials (2017-2022) were assessed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. In total, 3104 proteins were identified across all of the samples. Location, genotype, and year explained 26.7, 17.1, and 14.3% of the variance in the relative abundance of individual proteins, respectively. Sixteen proteins with storage, DNA/RNA binding, or enzymatic functions were significantly higher/lower in abundance (compared to the overall mean) in the Yolo 3 and Imperial Valley locations, Butta 12 and LCS Odyssey genotypes, and the 2017-18 and 2021-22 years. Individual protein abundances were reasonably predictive (RMSE", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning (ML) potentials such as the Gaussian approximation potential (GAP) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in mapping structure to properties across diverse systems. Here, we introduce a GAP model for low-dimensional Ni nanoclusters and demonstrate its flexibility and effectiveness in capturing the energetics, structural diversity, and thermodynamic properties of Ni nanoclusters across a broad size range. Through a systematic approach encompassing model development, validation, and application, we evaluate the model's efficacy in representing energetics and configurational features in low-dimensional regimes while also examining its extrapolative nature to vastly different spatiotemporal regimes. Our analysis and discussion shed light on the data quality required to effectively train such models. Trajectories from large-scale MD simulations using the GAP model analyzed with data-driven models like graph neural networks reveal intriguing insights into the size-dependent phase behavior and thermomechanical stability characteristics of porous Ni nanoparticles. Overall, our work underscores the potential of ML models, which coupled with data-driven approaches serve as versatile tools for studying low-dimensional systems and complex material dynamics.", 
    "abstract": "Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) is a critical global health challenge, undermining the efficacy of antimicrobial drugs against microorganisms like bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Multidrug Resistance (MDR) arises when microorganisms become resistant to multiple antimicrobial agents. The World Health Organization classifies AMR bacteria into Priority List-I (critical), II (high), and III (medium), prompting action from nearly 170 countries. Six priority bacterial strains account for over 70% of AMR-related fatalities, contributing to more than 1.3 million direct deaths annually and linked to over 5 million deaths globally. Enterobacteriaceae, including ", 
    "abstract": "Prediction of mortality in hospitalized patients is a crucial and important problem. Several severity scoring systems over the past few decades and machine learning models for mortality prediction have been developed to predict in-hospital mortality. Our aim in this study was to apply machine learning (ML) algorithms using QTc interval to predict in-hospital mortality in ACS patients and compare them to the validated conventional risk scores.\nThis study was retrospective, using supervised learning, and data mining. Out of a cohort of 500 patients admitted to a tertiary care hospital from September 2018 to August 2020, who presented with ACS. Prediction models for in-hospital mortality in ACS patients were developed using 3 ML algorithms. We employed the ensemble learning random forest (RF) model, the Naive Bayes (NB) model and the rule-based projective adaptive resonance theory (PART) model. These models were compared to one another and to two conventional validated risk scores; the Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) risk score and Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) risk score. Out of the 500 patients included in our study, 164 (32.8%) patients presented with unstable angina, 148 (29.6%) patients with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and 188 (37.6%) patients were having ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). 64 (12.8%) patients died in-hospital and the rest survived. Performance of prediction models was measured in an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) ranged from 0.83 to 0.93 using all available variables compared to the GRACE score (0.9 SD 0.05) and the TIMI score (0.75 SD 0.02). Using QTc as a stand-alone variable yielded (0.67 SD 0.02) with a cutoff value 450 using Bazett's formula, whereas using QTc in addition to other variables of personal and clinical data and other ECG variables, the result was 0.8 SD 0.04. Results of RF and NB models were almost the same, but PART model yielded the least results. There was no significant difference of AUC values after replacing the missing values and applying class balancer.\nThe proposed method can effectively predict patients at high risk of in-hospital mortality early in the setting of ACS using only clinical and ECG data. Prolonged QTc interval can be used as a risk predictor of in-hospital mortality in ACS patients.", 
    "abstract": "In causal inference, parametric models are usually employed to address causal questions estimating the effect of interest. However, parametric models rely on the correct model specification assumption that, if not met, leads to biased effect estimates. Correct model specification is challenging, especially in high-dimensional settings. Incorporating Machine Learning (ML) into causal analyses may reduce the bias arising from model misspecification, since ML methods do not require the specification of a functional form of the relationship between variables. However, when ML predictions are directly plugged in a predefined formula of the effect of interest, there is the risk of introducing a \"plug-in bias\" in the effect measure. To overcome this problem and to achieve useful asymptotic properties, new estimators that combine the predictive potential of ML and the ability of traditional statistical methods to make inference about population parameters have been proposed. For epidemiologists interested in taking advantage of ML for causal inference investigations, we provide an overview of three estimators that represent the current state-of-art, namely Targeted Maximum Likelihood Estimation (TMLE), Augmented Inverse Probability Weighting (AIPW) and Double/Debiased Machine Learning (DML).", 
    "abstract": "The chest X-ray (CXR) has a wide range of clinical indications in the field of cardiology, from the assessment of acute pathology to disease surveillance and screening. Despite many technological advancements, CXR interpretation error rates have remained constant for decades. The application of machine learning has the potential to substantially improve clinical workflow efficiency, pathology detection accuracy, error rates and clinical decision making in cardiology. To date, machine learning has been developed to improve image processing, facilitate pathology detection, optimize the clinical workflow, and facilitate risk stratification. This review explores the current and potential future applications of machine learning for chest radiography to facilitate clinical decision making in cardiology. It maps the current state of the science and considers additional potential use cases from the perspective of clinicians and technologists actively engaged in the development and deployment of deep learning driven clinical decision support systems.", 
    "abstract": "The mortality rate of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains high, and conventional TNM systems cannot accurately predict its prognosis, thus necessitating a predictive model. In this study, a 17-gene prognosis-related gene signature (PRS) predictive model was constructed using the random survival forest algorithm as the optimal algorithm among 99 machine-learning algorithm combinations based on data from 260 patients obtained from TCGA and GEO. The PRS model consistently outperformed other clinicopathological features and previously published signatures with superior prognostic accuracy, as evidenced by the receiver operating characteristic curve, C-index and decision curve analysis in both training and validation cohorts. In the Cox regression analysis, PRS score was an independent adverse prognostic factor. The 17 genes of PRS were predominantly expressed in malignant cells by single-cell RNA-seq analysis via the TISCH2 database. They were involved in immunological and metabolic pathways according to GSEA and GSVA. The high-risk group exhibited increased immune cell infiltration based on seven immunological algorithms, accompanied by a complex immune function status and elevated immune factor expression. Overall, the PRS model can serve as an excellent tool for overall survival prediction in ESCC and may facilitate individualized treatment strategies and predction of immunotherapy for patients with ESCC.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "[Box: see text].", 
    "abstract": "We introduce a methodological framework coupling machine-learning potentials, ring polymer molecular dynamics (RPMD), and kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) to draw a comprehensive physical picture of the collective diffusion of hydrogen atoms on metal surfaces. For the benchmark case of hydrogen diffusion on a Ni(100) surface, the hydrogen adsorption and diffusion energetics and its dependence on the local coverage is described via a neural-network potential, where the training data are computed via periodic density functional theory (DFT) and include all relevant optimized diffusion and desorption paths, sampled by nudged elastic band optimizations and molecular dynamics simulations. Nuclear quantum effects, being crucial for processes involving hydrogen at low temperatures, are treated by RPMD. The diffusion rate constants are calculated with a combination of umbrella samplings employed to map the free energy profile and separate samplings of recrossing trajectories to obtain the transmission coefficient. The calculated diffusion rates for different temperatures and local environments are then combined and fitted into a kMC model allowing access to larger time and length scales. Our results demonstrate an outstanding performance for the trained neural network potential in reproducing reference DFT energies and forces. We report the effective diffusion rates for different temperatures and hydrogen surface coverages obtained via this recipe in good agreement with the experimental results. The method combination proposed in this study can be instrumental for a wide range of applications in materials science.", 
    "abstract": "Dyslipidemia poses a significant risk for the progression to cardiovascular diseases. Despite the identification of numerous risk factors and the proposal of various risk scales, there is still an urgent need for effective predictive models for the onset of cardiovascular diseases in the hyperlipidemic population, which are essential for the prevention of CVD.\nWe carried out a retrospective cohort study with 23,548 hyperlipidemia patients in Shenzhen Health Information Big Data Platform, including 11,723 CVD onset cases in a 3-year follow-up. The population was randomly divided into 70% as an independent training dataset and remaining 30% as test set. Four distinct machine-learning algorithms were implemented on the training dataset with the aim of developing highly accurate predictive models, and their performance was subsequently benchmarked against conventional risk assessment scales. An ablation study was also carried out to analyze the impact of individual risk factors to model performance.\nThe non-linear algorithm, LightGBM, excelled in forecasting the incidence of cardiovascular disease within 3\u00a0years, achieving an area under the 'receiver operating characteristic curve' (AUROC) of 0.883. This performance surpassed that of the conventional logistic regression model, which had an AUROC of 0.725, on identical datasets. Concurrently, in direct comparative analyses, machine-learning approaches have notably outperformed the three traditional risk assessment methods within their respective applicable populations. These include the Framingham cardiovascular disease risk score, 2019 ESC/EAS guidelines for the management of dyslipidemia and the 2016 Chinese recommendations for the management of dyslipidemia in adults. Further analysis of risk factors showed that the variability of blood lipid levels and remnant cholesterol played an important role in indicating an increased risk of CVD.\nWe have shown that the application of machine-learning techniques significantly enhances the precision of cardiovascular risk forecasting among hyperlipidemic patients, addressing the critical issue of disease prediction's heterogeneity and non-linearity. Furthermore, some recently-suggested biomarkers, including blood lipid variability and remnant cholesterol are also important predictors of cardiovascular events, suggesting the importance of continuous lipid monitoring and healthcare profiling through big data platforms.", 
    "abstract": "The objective of this study was to assess the predictability of admissions to a MH inpatient ward using ML models, based on routine data collected during triage in EDs. This research sought to identify the most effective ML model for this purpose while considering the practical implications of model interpretability for clinical use.\nThe study utilised existing data from January 2016 to December 2021. After data pre-processing, an exploratory analysis revealed the non-linear nature of the dataset. Six different ML models were tested: Random Forest, XGBoost, CatBoost, k-Nearest Neighbours (kNN), Explainable Boosting Machine (EBM) using InterpretML, and Support Vector Machine using Support Vector Classification (SVC). The performance of these models was evaluated using various metrics including the Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC).\nAmong the models evaluated, the CatBoost model achieved the highest MCC score of 0.1952, demonstrating superior balanced accuracy and predictive power, particularly in correctly identifying positive cases. The InterpretML model also performed well, with an MCC score of 0.1914. While CatBoost showed strong predictive capabilities, its complexity poses challenges for clinical interpretation. Conversely, the InterpretML model, though slightly less powerful, offers better transparency and is more practical for clinical use.\nThe findings suggest that the CatBoost model is a compelling choice for scenarios prioritising the detection of positive cases. However, the InterpretML model's ease of interpretation makes it more suitable for clinical application. Integrating explanation methods like SHAP with non-linear models could enhance model transparency and foster clinician trust. Further research is recommended to refine non-linear models within decision support systems, explore multi-source data integration, understand clinician attitudes towards ML, and develop real-time data collection systems. This study highlights the potential of ML in predicting MH admissions from ED data while stressing the importance of interpretability, ethical considerations, and ongoing validation for successful clinical implementation.", 
    "abstract": "A promising approach to optimizing recovery in youth football has been the use of machine learning (ML) models to predict recovery states and prevent mental fatigue. This research investigates the application of ML models in classifying male young football players aged under (U)15, U17, and U19 according to their recovery state. Weekly training load data were systematically monitored across three age groups throughout the initial month of the 2019-2020 competitive season, covering 18 training sessions and 120 observation instances. Outfield players were tracked using portable 18-Hz global positioning system (GPS) devices, while heart rate (HR) was measured using 1 Hz telemetry HR bands. The rating of perceived exertion (RPE 6-20) and total quality recovery (TQR 6-20) scores were employed to evaluate perceived exertion, internal training load, and recovery state, respectively. Data preprocessing involved handling missing values, normalization, and feature selection using correlation coefficients and a random forest (RF) classifier. Five ML algorithms [K-nearest neighbors (KNN), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), support vector machine (SVM), RF, and decision tree (DT)] were assessed for classification performance. The K-fold method was employed to cross-validate the ML outputs.\nA high accuracy for this ML classification model (73-100%) was verified. The feature selection highlighted critical variables, and we implemented the ML algorithms considering a panel of 9 variables (U15, U19, body mass, accelerations, decelerations, training weeks, sprint distance, and RPE). These features were included according to their percentage of importance (3-18%). The results were cross-validated with good accuracy across 5-fold (79%).\nThe five ML models, in combination with weekly data, demonstrated the efficacy of wearable device-collected features as an efficient combination in predicting football players' recovery states.", 
    "abstract": "Venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV-ECMO) is associated with acute brain injury (ABI), including central nervous system (CNS) ischemia (defined as ischemic stroke or hypoxic-ischemic brain injury [HIBI]) and intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). Data on prediction models for neurologic outcomes in VV-ECMO are limited.\nWe analyzed adult (age \u226518\u00a0years) VV-ECMO patients in the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization (ELSO) Registry (2009-2021) from 676 centers. ABI was defined as CNS ischemia, ICH, brain death, and seizures. Data on 67 variables were extracted, including clinical characteristics and pre-ECMO/on-ECMO variables. Random forest, CatBoost, LightGBM, and XGBoost machine learning (ML) algorithms (10-fold leave-one-out cross-validation) were used to predict ABI. Feature importance scores were used to pinpoint the most important variables for predicting ABI.\nOf 37,473 VV-ECMO patients (median age, 48.1\u00a0years; 63% male), 2644 (7.1%) experienced ABI, including 610 (2%) with CNS ischemia and 1591 (4%) with ICH. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve for predicting ABI, CNS ischemia, and ICH were 0.70, 0.68, and 0.70, respectively. The accuracy, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for ABI were 85%, 19%, and 95%, respectively. ML identified higher center volume, pre-ECMO cardiac arrest, higher ECMO pump flow, and elevated on-ECMO serum lactate level as the most important risk factors for ABI and its subtypes.\nThis is the largest study of VV-ECMO patients to use ML to predict ABI reported to date. Performance was suboptimal, likely due to lack of standardization of neuromonitoring/imaging protocols and data granularity in the ELSO Registry. Standardized neurologic monitoring and imaging are needed across ELSO centers to detect the true prevalence of ABI.", 
    "abstract": "The recurrence rate of strokes associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) can be substantially reduced through the administration of oral anticoagulants. However, previous studies have not demonstrated a clear benefit from the universal application of oral anticoagulants in patients with embolic stroke of undetermined source. Timely detection of AF remains a challenge in patients with stroke.\nThis study aims to develop a convolutional neural network (CNN) model to accurately identify patients with AF using a 12-lead sinus-rhythm electrocardiogram (ECG) recorded around the time of the first ischemic stroke. Additionally, this study also evaluates the model's ability to predict future occurrence of AF.\nA CNN model was trained with ECG data from patients at Taipei Veterans General Hospital. External validation was performed on ischemic stroke patients from National Taiwan University Hospital. The model's performance was assessed for detecting AF at the stroke event and predicting future AF occurrences.\nThe model demonstrated an area under curve (AUC) of 0.91 for internal validation and 0.69 for external validation in identifying AF at the stroke event, with sensitivity and negative predictive value both achieving 97%. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis of patients without a prior diagnosis of AF revealed a significant increase in future AF incidence among the high-risk group identified by the model (adjusted hazard ratio: 4.06; 95% confidence interval: 2.74-6.00).\nThe CNN model effectively identifies AF in stroke patients using 12-lead ECGs and predicts future AF events, facilitating early anticoagulation therapy and potentially reducing recurrent stroke risk. Further prospective studies are warranted to confirm these findings.", 
    "abstract": "[Box: see text].", 
    "abstract": "Arterial stiffness has emerged as a prominent marker of risk for cardiovascular diseases. Few studies are interested in predicting symptomatic or asymptomatic arterial stiffness from hemodynamics and biomechanics parameters. Machine learning models can be used as an intelligent tool for arterial stiffness detection based on hemodynamic and biomechanical parameters. Indeed, in the case of arterial stiffness hemodynamics and biomechanics parameters present significant change, such as an increase in age, local wave velocity, arterial elastance, Young's modulus, reflected wave amplitude, decrease in arterial compliance, reflected wave arrival time, and reflection coefficient. This study aims to assess the impact of artificial intelligence using machine-learning algorithms for the detection of arterial stiffness. The ability of various machine-learning approaches can be investigated to predict wall stiffness in the carotid artery and to evaluate the risk of cardiovascular events. A mathematical model developed in previous work was used to determine hemodynamic and biomechanical parameters. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity are calculated to evaluate the performance of the proposed models. All used classifiers demonstrated high performance in predicting arterial stiffness, notably with the Support Vector Machine, Artificial Neural Network, and Decision Tree classifiers achieving exceptional accuracies of 100%. In this study, the potential of machine learning based on hemodynamic parameters for the prediction of symptomatic and asymptomatic arterial stiffness was demonstrated.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD) is a chronic neurological disorder primarily characterized by a deficiency of dopamine in the brain. In recent years, numerous studies have highlighted the substantial influence of RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) regulators on various biological processes. Nevertheless, the specific contribution of m6A-related genes to the development and progression of PD remains uncertain. In this study, we performed a differential analysis of the GSE8397 dataset in the Gene Expression Omnibus database and selected important m6A-related genes. Candidate m6A-related genes were then screened using a random forest model to predict the risk of PD. A nomogram model was built based on the candidate m6A-related genes. By employing a consensus clustering method, PD was divided into different m6A clusters based on the selected significant m6A-related genes. Finally, we performed immune cell infiltration analysis to explore the immune infiltration between different clusters. We performed a differential analysis of the GSE8397 dataset in the Gene Expression Omnibus database and selected 11 important m6A-related genes. Four candidate m6A-related genes (YTH Domain Containing 2, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C, leucine-rich pentatricopeptide repeat motif containing protein and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3) were then screened using a random forest model to predict the risk of PD. A nomogram model was built based on the 4 candidate m6A-related genes. The decision curve analysis indicated that patients can benefit from the nomogram model. By employing a consensus clustering method, PD was divided into 2 m6A clusters (cluster A and cluster B) based on the selected significant m6A-related genes. The immune cell infiltration analysis revealed that cluster A and cluster B exhibit distinct immune phenotypes. In conclusion, m6A-related genes play a significant role in the development of PD and our study on m6A clustering may potentially guide personalized treatment strategies for PD in the future.", 
    "abstract": "Gliomas represent a highly aggressive class of tumors located in the brain. Despite the availability of multiple treatment modalities, the prognosis for patients diagnosed with glioma remains unfavorable. Therefore, further exploration of new biomarkers is crucial to enhance the prognostic assessment of glioma and to investigate more effective treatment options. In this research, we utilized multiple machine learning techniques to assess the significance of genes related to angiogenesis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in the context of prognosis and treatment for glioma patients. The random forest algorithm highlighted the significance of CALU, and further analysis indicated that the effect of CALU on glioma progression may be regulated by MYC. Different machine learning approaches were employed in our investigation to uncover crucial genes associated with angiogenesis and EMT in glioma. Our findings verify the connection between these genes and the prognosis of patients with glioma, as well as the results of immunotherapeutic interventions. Notably, through experimental verification, we identified CALU as a new prognostic marker for glioma, and inhibiting the expression of CALU can impede the progression of glioma.", 
    "abstract": "For critically ill patients with acute kidney injury (AKI), there remains controversy regarding the predictive factors affecting the discontinuation of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). This study aims to explore factors associated with successful CRRT discontinuation in AKI patients and to develop predictive models for successful discontinuation.\nWe conducted a retrospective study on adult patients with AKI who received CRRT, sourced from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care (MIMIC-IV) database. Successful discontinuation of CRRT was defined as no CRRT requirement within 72\u00a0h after stopping CRRT. Predictive factors for successful discontinuation of CRRT were analyzed. Additionally, we utilized machine learning algorithms to develop predictive models, including logistic regression (LR), decision tree (DT), random forest (RF), XGBoost, and K-nearest neighbor (KNN).\nA total of 599 patients were included, of whom 475 (79.3%) successfully discontinued CRRT. Urine output, non-renal SOFA score, bicarbonate, systolic blood pressure, and blood urea nitrogen were identified as risk factors for successful CRRT discontinuation. The KNN model exhibited the highest area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (0.870), followed by LR (0.739), DT (0.691), RF (0.847), and XGBoost (0.830). When incorporating all available variables, the AUCs for the LR, DT, RF, XGBoost, and KNN models were 0.708, 0.674, 0.875, 0.866, and 0.816, respectively. Considering the performance of the models in both scenarios, the ensemble learning models (RF and XGBoost) were demonstrated superior performance.\nOur results identified factors associated with successful discontinuation of CRRT in AKI patients. Additionally, we developed promising machine learning models which provided a reference for future research.", 
    "abstract": "Fluorouracil-based chemotherapy responses in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients vary widely, highlighting the role of pharmacogenomics in developing better predictive models. We analyzed 379 CRC patients receiving fluorouracil-based chemotherapy, collecting data on fluorouracil metabolism-related SNPs (TYMS, MTHFR, DPYD, RRM1), blood inflammatory markers, and clinical status. Six machine learning models-K-nearest neighbors, support vector machine, gradient boosting decision trees (GBDT), eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), LightGBM, and random forest-were compared against multivariate logistic regression and a deep learning model (i.e., multilayer perceptron, MLP). Feature importance analysis highlighted seven predictors: histological grade, N and M staging, monocyte count, platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio, MTHFR rs1801131, and RRM1 rs11030918. In a five-fold cross-validation, XGBoost and GBDT exhibited superior performance, with Area Under Curve (AUC) of 0.88\u2009\u00b1\u20090.02. XGBoost excelled in identifying favorable prognosis (recall\u2009=\u20090.939). GBDT demonstrated balance in recognizing both categories, with a recall for favorable prognosis of 0.908 and a precision for unfavorable prognosis of 0.863. MLP had a similar AUC (0.87) with high precision for favorable prognosis (recall\u2009=\u20090.946). In external validation, XGBoost model achieved an accuracy of 0.79. An online prognostic tool based on XGBoost was developed, integrating metabolism-related SNPs and inflammatory markers, enhancing CRC treatment precision and supporting tailored chemotherapy.", 
    "abstract": "Optical mammography as a promising tool for cancer diagnosis has largely fallen behind expectations. Modern machine learning (ML) methods offer ways to improve cancer detection in diffuse optical transmission data.\nWe aim to quantitatively evaluate the classification of cancer-positive versus cancer-negative patients using ML methods on raw transmission time series data from bilateral breast scans during subjects' rest.\nWe use a support vector machine (SVM) with hyperparameter optimization and cross-validation to systematically explore a range of data preprocessing and feature-generation strategies. We also apply an automated ML (AutoML) framework to validate our findings. We use receiver operating characteristics and the corresponding area under the curve (AUC) to quantify classification performance.\nFor the sample group available ( \nML offers a viable strategy for clinically relevant breast cancer diagnosis using diffuse-optical transmission measurements. The diagnostic performance of ML on raw data can outperform traditional statistical biomarkers derived from reconstructed image time series. To achieve clinically relevant performance, our ML approach requires simultaneous bilateral scanning of the breasts with spatially dense channel coverage.", 
    "abstract": "Physical inactivity increases the risk of mortality and chronic morbidity. Therefore, it is crucial to establish strategies to encourage individuals to increase their physical activity and develop exercise habits. The objective of this study was to explore factors associated with acquiring exercise habits using machine learning algorithms.\nThe analyzed dataset was obtained from the Specific Health Guidance for metabolic syndrome systematically implemented by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare. We selected target individuals for health guidance without exercise habits in 2017 and assessed whether the participants acquired exercise habits through health guidance in 2018. We applied ten machine learning algorithms to build prediction models for acquiring exercise habits.\nThis study included 16,471 middle-aged Japanese workers (age, 49.5\u00a0\u00b1\u00a06.2\u00a0years). Among the machine learning algorithms, the Boosted Generalized Linear Model was the best for predicting the acquisition of exercise habits based on the receiver operating characteristic curve on the test set (ROC-AUC\nOur findings can be used to establish an efficient strategy for encouraging individuals to acquire exercise habits through Specific Health Guidance or other health guidance. However, the lower ROC-AUC", 
    "abstract": "Despite the advantage of neuroimaging-based machine learning (ML) models as pivotal tools for investigating brain-behavior relationships in neuropsychiatric studies, these data-driven predictive approaches have yet to yield substantial, clinically actionable insights for mental health care. A notable impediment lies in the inadequate accommodation of most ML research to the natural heterogeneity within large samples. Although commonly thought of as individual-level analyses, many ML algorithms are unimodal and homogeneous and thus incapable of capturing the potentially heterogeneous relationships between biology and psychopathology. We review the current landscape of computational research targeting population heterogeneity and argue that there is a need to expand from brain subtyping and behavioral phenotyping to analyses that focus on heterogeneity at the relational level. To this end, we review and suggest several existing ML models with the capacity to discern how external environmental and sociodemographic factors moderate the brain-behavior mapping function in a data-driven fashion. These heterogeneous ML models hold promise for enhancing the discovery of individualized brain-behavior associations and advancing precision psychiatry.\nNeuroimaging-based machine learning models have become pivotal tools for investigating brain-behavior relationships. One notable impediment that limits these data-driven approaches to yield clinically actionable insights into mental health problems lies in the inadequate accommodation to natural heterogeneity within consortia samples. We argue that computational research needs to expand from brain subtyping and behavioral phenotyping to analyses that focus on heterogeneity at the relational level. To this end, we review and suggest several existing machine learning models with the capacity to discern how external environmental and sociodemographic factors moderate the brain-behavior mapping function in a data-driven fashion.", 
    "abstract": "New phosphors are consistently in demand for advances in solid-state lighting and displays. Conventional trial-and-error exploration experiments for new phosphors require considerable time. If a phosphor host suitable for the target luminescent property can be proposed using computational science, the speed of development of new phosphors will significantly increase, and unexpected/overlooked compositions could be proposed as candidates. As a more practical approach for developing new phosphors with target luminescent properties, we looked at combining experiments with machine learning on the topics of emission wavelength, full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the emission peak, temperature dependence of the emission spectrum (thermal quenching), new phosphors with new chemical composition or crystal structure, and high-throughput experiments.\nThe combination of high-throughput experiment and machine learning is a practical approach for developing new phosphor. In this paper, some development examples of new phosphor are presented.", 
    "abstract": "Bladder cancer (BCa), one of the most common cancers worldwide, is characterized by high rates of recurrence, progression, and mortality. Machine learning algorithms offer promising advancements in enhancing predictive models. This study aims to develop robust machine learning models for predicting BCa survival using clinical and gene expression data.\nClinical data from BCa patients were obtained from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database. Cox proportional hazards regression models assessed the association between clinical variables and overall survival. Machine learning algorithms, including logistic regression, random forest, XGBoost, decision tree, and LightGBM, were employed to predict survival at 1, 3, and 5 years. The TAGO database, combined with the data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and four databases from the Gene Expression Omnibus, which have available genomic data and clinical data, were selected. Gene expression data were transformed into gene sets data, and the performance of models based on clinical data and gene sets data and their combination were compared. Furthermore, the impact of model-derived scores on overall survival was evaluated.\nAmong 138,741 BCa patients with available clinical data, key independent predictors of survival included age, race, marital status, surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, and TNM stages. Clinical data machine learning (CML) models used these clinical predictors to achieve AUC values of 0.860, 0.821, and 0.804 in the testing sets for predicting survival at 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. In the TAGO database, which has 863 patients with clinical and genomic data, the integrated clinical and gene expression machine learning model (IML) outperformed the CML and gene expression machine learning (GML) models in survival prediction. Patients with higher IML and GML model scores exhibited poorer survival outcomes.\nThis study successfully identifies key clinical and genomic predictors, a significant step forward in BCa research. The development of predictive models for BCa survival underscores the potential of integrated data approaches in improving BCa management and treatment strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Ulcerative colitis (UC) is an increasing incidence of inflammatory disorder in the colon mucosa. One of the current research focuses is the alteration of metabolic networks in UC. One of the important aspects of this metabolic shift is the expression of purine metabolism genes (PMGs) vital for nucleic acid synthesis. Nevertheless, the precise function of PMGs in the pathophysiology of UC is not yet fully known.\nTo this end, this study used state-of-the-art bioinformatics tools and approaches to discover and confirm the PMGs involved in UC. All the 114 candidate PMGs were compared for their expression levels. GSEA and GSVA were applied to define the functional and pathway implications of these PMGs. Lasso regression and SVM-RFE approaches were used for the identification of hub genes and to assess the diagnostic potential of eight PMGs in UC classification. The relationship between these critical PMGs and clinical features was also systematically evaluated as well. The expression levels of these eight PMGs were validated using datasets GSE206285 and GSE179285.\nUsing bioinformatics and machine learning, this work seeks to establish the involvement of PMGs in UC. From the LASSO and SVM models, 114 DE PMGs were selected and investigated to build a stable predictive model. Based on these studies, the following genes: IMPDH1, GUK1, POLE3, ADCY3, ADCY4, PDE6B, PNPT1 and PDE4D were suggested as potential biomarkers of UC. Gene ontology enrichment analysis revealed that these genes are implicated in the biological processes of particular relevance to immune and inflammatory responses. The study also provided a lot of information on the interaction between immune cells and PMGs indicating that these genes may control some immune-related pathways in UC. Moreover, drug-gene interaction analysis presents potential therapeutic opportunities for potential drug targets which were further confirmed through molecular docking. Mendelian randomization analysis revealed that ADCY4 and PDAZN are involved in PMG-related processes, thus opening new possibilities for treatment.\nThis work reveals eight PMGs closely related to UC and provides new perspectives on possible markers of this inflammatory disease. These findings not only increase the understanding of the pathogenesis of UC but also offer potential for improving the surveillance of disease and its progression.", 
    "abstract": "This study applies predictive analytics to identify patients at risk of missing appointments at a novel post-discharge clinic (PDC) in a large academic health system. Recognizing the critical role of appointment adherence in the success of new clinical ventures, this research aims to inform future targeted interventions to increase appointment adherence.\nWe analyzed electronic health records (EHRs) capturing a wide array of demographic, socio-economic, and clinical variables from 2168 patients with scheduled appointments at the PDC from September 2022 to August 2023. Logistic regression, decision trees, and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) algorithms were employed to construct predictive models for appointment adherence.\nThe XGBoost machine learning model outperformed logistic regression and decision trees with an area under the curve (AUC) of 72% vs 65% and 67%, respectively, in predicting missed appointments, despite limited availability of historical data. Key predictors included patient age, number of days between appointment scheduling and occurrence, insurance status, marital status, and mental health and cardiac disease conditions.\nFindings underscore the potential of machine learning predictive analytics to significantly enhance patient engagement and operational efficiency in emerging healthcare settings. Optimizing predictive models can help balance the early identification of patients at risk of non-adherence with the efficient allocation of resources.\nThe study highlights the potential value of employing machine learning techniques to inform interventions aimed at improving appointment adherence in a post-discharge transition clinic environment.", 
    "abstract": "Daratumumab (Dara) is the first monoclonal antibody introduced into clinical practice to treat multiple myeloma (MM). It currently forms the backbone of therapy regimens in both newly diagnosed (ND) and relapsed/refractory (RR) patients. However, previous reports indicated an increased risk of infectious complications (ICs) during Dara-based treatment. In this study, we aimed to determine the profile of ICs in MM patients treated with Dara-based regimens and establish predictors of their occurrence.\nThis retrospective, real-life study included MM patients treated with Dara-based regimens between July 2019 and March 2024 at our institution. Infectious events were evaluated using the Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.\nThe study group consisted of a total of 139 patients, including 49 NDMM and 90 RRMM. In the RR setting, the majority (60.0%) of patients received the Dara, bortezomib, and dexamethasone (DVd) regimen, whereas ND patients were predominantly (98%) treated with the Dara, bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone (DVTd) regimen. Overall, 55 patients (39.6%) experienced ICs. The most common IC was pneumonia (37.5%), followed by upper respiratory tract infections (26.8%). Finally, twenty-five patients had severe ICs (grade \u2265 3) and required hospitalization, and eight patients died due to ICs. In the final multivariable model adjusted for setting (ND/RR) and age, hemoglobin level (OR 0.77, 95% CI: 0.61-0.96, \nSimple clinical and laboratory assessments, including hemoglobin level and ECOG scale, can be valuable in identifying patients vulnerable to infections during Dara-based regimens, facilitating personalized prophylactic strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Background Parenchymal Enhancement (BPE) on breast MRI holds promise as an imaging biomarker for breast cancer risk and prognosis. The ability to identify those at greatest risk can inform clinical decisions, promoting early diagnosis and potentially guiding strategies for prevention such as risk-reduction interventions with the use of selective estrogen receptor modulators and aromatase inhibitors. Currently, the standard method of assessing BPE is based on the Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS), which involves a radiologist's qualitative categorization of BPE as minimal, mild, moderate, or marked on contrast-enhanced MRI. This approach can be subjective and prone to inter/intra-observer variability, and compromises accuracy and reproducibility. In addition, this approach limits qualitative assessment to 4 categories. More recently developed methods using machine learning/artificial intelligence (ML/AI) techniques have the potential to quantify BPE more accurately and objectively. This paper will review the current machine learning/AI methods to determine BPE, and the clinical applications of BPE as an imaging biomarker for breast cancer risk prediction and prognosis.", 
    "abstract": "(1) Background: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary malignant brain tumor in adults, with an aggressive disease course that requires accurate prognosis for individualized treatment planning. This study aims to develop and evaluate a radiomics-based machine learning (ML) model to estimate overall survival (OS) for patients with GBM using pre-treatment multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). (2) Methods: The MRI data of 865 patients with GBM were assessed, comprising 499 patients from the UPENN-GBM dataset and 366 patients from the UCSF-PDGM dataset. A total of 14,598 radiomic features were extracted from T1, T1 with contrast, T2, and FLAIR MRI sequences using PyRadiomics. The UPENN-GBM dataset was used for model development (70%) and internal validation (30%), while the UCSF-PDGM dataset served as an external test set. The NGBoost Survival model was developed to generate continuous probability estimates as well as predictions for 6-, 12-, 18-, and 24-month OS. (3) Results: The NGBoost Survival model successfully predicted survival, achieving a C-index of 0.801 on internal validation and 0.725 on external validation. For 6-month OS, the model attained an AUROC of 0.791 (95% CI: 0.742-0.832) and 0.708 (95% CI: 0.654-0.748) for internal and external validation, respectively. (4) Conclusions: The radiomics-based ML model demonstrates potential to improve the prediction of OS for patients with GBM.", 
    "abstract": "To monitor health risks associated with vaping, we introduce a multi-spectral optical sensor powered by machine learning for real-time characterization of electronic cigarette aerosols. The sensor can accurately measure the mass of particulate matter (PM) in specific particle size channels, providing essential information for estimating lung deposition of vaping aerosols. For the sensor's input, wavelength-specific optical attenuation signals are acquired for three separate wavelengths in the ultraviolet, red, and near-infrared range, and the inhalation pressure is collected from a pressure sensor. The sensor's outputs are PM mass in three size bins, specified as 100-300 nm, 300-600 nm, and 600-1000 nm. Reference measurements of electronic cigarette aerosols, obtained using a custom vaping machine and a scanning mobility particle sizer, provided the ground truth for size-binned PM mass. A lightweight two-layer feedforward neural network was trained using datasets acquired from a wide range of puffing conditions. The performance of the neural network was tested using unseen data collected using new combinations of puffing conditions. The model-predicted values matched closely with the ground truth, and the accuracy reached 81-87% for PM mass in three size bins. Given the sensor's straightforward optical configuration and the direct collection of signals from undiluted vaping aerosols, the achieved accuracy is notably significant and sufficiently reliable for point-of-interest sensing of vaping aerosols. To the best of our knowledge, this work represents the first instance where machine learning has been applied to directly characterize high-concentration undiluted electronic cigarette aerosols. Our sensor holds great promise in tracking electronic cigarette users' puff topography with quantification of size-binned PM mass, to support long-term personalized health and wellness.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "This study used hyperspectral remote sensing to rapidly, economically, and non-destructively determine the soil iron oxide content of the Dinosaur Valley annular tectonic region of Lufeng, Yunnan Province. The laboratory determined the iron oxide content and original spectral reflectance (OR) in 138 surface soil samples. We first subjected the OR data to Savizky-Golay smoothing, followed by four spectral transformations-continuum removal reflectance, reciprocal logarithm reflectance, standard normal variate reflectance, and first-order differential reflectance-which improved the signal-to-noise ratio of the spectral curves and highlighted the spectral features. Then, we combined the correlation coefficient method (CC), competitive adaptive reweighting algorithm, and Boruta algorithm to screen out the characteristic wavelength. From this, we constructed the linear partial least squares regression model, nonlinear random forest, and XGBoost machine learning algorithms. The results show that the CC-Boruta method can effectively remove any noise and irrelevant information to improve the model's accuracy and stability. The XGBoost nonlinear machine learning algorithm model better captures the complex nonlinear relationship between the spectra and iron oxide content, thus improving its accuracy. This provides a relevant reference for the rapid and accurate inversion of iron oxide content in soil using hyperspectral data.", 
    "abstract": "We present a data-driven, in situ proximal multi-sensor digital soil mapping approach to develop digital twins for multiple agricultural fields. A novel Digital Soil Core", 
    "abstract": "The global prevalence of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is increasing at an alarming rate, underscoring the urgent need for timely and accurate diagnoses to facilitate effective interventions and treatments. Electroencephalography remains a widely used neuroimaging technique in psychiatry, due to its non-invasive nature and cost-effectiveness. With the rise of computational psychiatry, the integration of EEG with artificial intelligence has yielded remarkable results in diagnosing depression. This review offers a comparative analysis of two predominant methodologies in research: traditional machine learning and deep learning methods. Furthermore, this review addresses key challenges in current research and suggests potential solutions. These insights aim to enhance diagnostic accuracy for depression and also foster further development in the area of computational psychiatry.", 
    "abstract": "We performed machine learning (ML) simulations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations to search for materials with low lattice thermal conductivity, \u03baL. Several cadmium (Cd) compounds containing elements from the alkali metal and carbon groups including A", 
    "abstract": "This study employs machine learning models to predict the adsorption characteristics of biochar-activated carbon derived from waste wood. Activated carbon is a high-performance adsorbent utilized in various fields such as air purification, water treatment, energy production, and storage. However, its characteristics vary depending on the activation conditions or raw materials, making explaining or predicting them challenging using physicochemical or mathematical methods. Therefore, using machine learning techniques to determine the adsorption characteristics of activated carbon in advance will provide economic and time benefits for activated carbon production. Datasets, consisting of 108 points, were used to predict the adsorption characteristics of biochar-activated carbon derived from waste wood. The input variables were the activation conditions, and the iodine number of activated carbon was used as the output variable. The datasets were randomly split into 75% for training and 25% for model validation and normalized by the min-max function. Four models, including artificial neural networks, random forests, extreme gradient boosting, and support vector machines, were used to predict the adsorption properties of biochar-activated carbon. After optimization, the artificial neural network model was identified as the best model, with the highest coefficient determination (0.96) and the lowest mean squared error (0.004017). As a result of the SHAP analysis, activation time was the most crucial variable influencing the adsorption properties. The machine learning model precisely predicts the adsorption characteristics of biochar-activated carbon and can optimize the activated carbon production process.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate temperature measurement is critical across various scientific and industrial applications, necessitating advancements in thermometry techniques. This study explores luminescence thermometry, specifically utilizing machine learning methodologies to enhance temperature sensitivity and accuracy. We investigate the performance of principal component analysis (PCA) on the Eu", 
    "abstract": "Changes in the speech and language of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been reported. Using machine learning to characterize these irregularities may contribute to the early, non-invasive diagnosis of AD.\nWe conducted cognitive function assessments, including the Mini-Mental State Examination, with 83 patients with AD and 75 healthy elderly participants, and recorded pre- and post-assessment conversations to evaluate participants' speech. We analyzed the characteristics of the spectrum, intensity, fundamental frequency, and minute temporal variation (\u2206) of the intensity and fundamental frequency of the speech and compared them between patients with AD and healthy participants. Additionally, we evaluated the performance of the speech features that differed between the two groups as single explanatory variables.\nWe found significant differences in almost all elements of the speech spectrum between the two groups. Regarding the intensity, we found significant differences in all the factors except for the standard deviation between the two groups. In the performance evaluation, the areas under the curve revealed by logistic regression analysis were higher for the center of gravity (0.908 \u00b1 0.036), mean skewness (0.904 \u00b1 0.023), kurtosis (0.932 \u00b1 0.023), and standard deviation (0.977 \u00b1 0.012) of the spectra.\nThis study used machine learning to reveal speech features of patients diagnosed with AD in comparison with healthy elderly people. Significant differences were found between the two groups in all components of the spectrum, paving the way for early non-invasive diagnosis of AD in the future.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Quality control and grading of Korla fragrant pears significantly impact their commercial value. Rapid and non-destructive detection of soluble solids content (SSC) and firmness is crucial to improving this. This study proposes a method combining near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) with machine learning for the rapid, non-destructive detection of SSC and firmness in Korla pears. By analyzing absorbance in the 900-1800 nm range, six preprocessing methods-Savitzky-Golay derivative (SGD), standard normal variate (SNV), multiplicative scatter correction (MSC), Savitzky-Golay smoothing (SGS), vector normalization (VN), and min-max normalization (MMN)-were applied to the raw spectral data. uninformative variable elimination (UVE) and successive projections algorithm (SPA) were then used to extract effective wavelengths. Partial least squares regression (PLSR) models were developed for SSC and firmness based on the extracted data. The results showed that all preprocessing and wavelength-extraction methods improved model accuracy. The optimal SSC prediction model was MSC-SPA-PLSR (R = 0.93, RMSE = 0.195), and the best hardness prediction model was MSC-UVE-PLSR (R = 0.83, RMSE = 0.249). This research aids in establishing a non-destructive testing system, offering producers a rapid and accurate quality assessment tool, and provides the food industry with better production control measures to enhance standardization and market competitiveness of Korla pears.", 
    "abstract": "Gestational weight gain (GWG) is a critical factor influencing maternal and fetal health. Excessive or insufficient GWG can lead to various complications, including gestational diabetes, hypertension, cesarean delivery, low birth weight, and preterm birth. This study aims to develop and evaluate machine learning models to predict GWG categories: below, within, or above recommended guidelines.\nWe analyzed data from the Araraquara Cohort, Brazil, which comprised 1557 pregnant women with a gestational age of 19 weeks or less. Predictors included socioeconomic, demographic, lifestyle, morbidity, and anthropometric factors. Five machine learning algorithms (Random Forest, LightGBM, AdaBoost, CatBoost, and XGBoost) were employed for model development. The models were trained and evaluated using a multiclass classification approach. Model performance was assessed using metrics such as area under the ROC curve (AUC-ROC), F1 score and Matthew's correlation coefficient (MCC).\nThe outcomes were categorized as follows: GWG within recommendations (28.7%), GWG below (32.5%), and GWG above recommendations (38.7%). The XGBoost presented the best overall model, achieving an AUC-ROC of 0.79 for GWG within, 0.76 for GWG below, and 0.65 for GWG above. The LightGBM also performed well with an AUC-ROC of 0.79 for predicting GWG within recommendations, 0.76 for GWG below, and 0.624 for GWG above. The most important predictors of GWG were pre-gestational BMI, maternal age, glycemic profile, hemoglobin levels, and arm circumference.\nMachine learning models can effectively predict GWG categories, offering a valuable tool for early identification of at-risk pregnancies. This approach can enhance personalized prenatal care and interventions to promote optimal pregnancy outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "The predictive power of the treatment efficacy and prognosis in primary androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for advanced prostate cancer is not satisfactory. The objective of this study was to integrate genetic and clinical data to predict castration resistance in primary ADT for advanced prostate cancer by machine learning (ML).\nClinical and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) data obtained in the KYUCOG-1401-A study (UMIN000022852) that enrolled Japanese patients with advanced prostate cancer were used. All patients were treated with primary ADT. A point-wise linear (PWL) algorithm, logistic regression with elastic-net regularization, and eXtreme Gradient Boosting were the ML algorithms used in this study. Area under the curve for castration resistance and C-index for prognoses were calculated to evaluate the utility of the models.\nAmong the three ML algorithms, the area under the curve values to predict castration resistance at 2 years was highest for the PWL algorithm with all the datasets. Three predictive models (clinical model, small SNPs model, and large SNPs model) were created by the PWL algorithm using the clinical data alone, and 2 and 46 SNPs in addition to clinical data. C-indices for overall survival by the clinical, small SNPs, and large SNPs models were 0.636, 0.621, and 0.703, respectively.\nThe results demonstrated that the SNPs models created by ML produced excellent prediction of castration resistance and prognosis in primary ADT for advanced prostate cancer, and will be helpful in treatment choice.", 
    "abstract": "The clinical potential of Raman spectroscopy is well established but has yet to become established in routine oncology workflows. One barrier slowing clinical adoption is a lack of evidence demonstrating that data taken on one spectrometer transfers across to data taken on another spectrometer to provide consistent diagnoses.\nWe investigated multi-centre transferability using human oesophageal tissue. Raman spectra were taken across three different centres with different spectrometers of the same make and model. By using a common protocol, we aimed to minimise the difference in machine learning performance between centres.\n61 oesophageal samples from 51 patients were interrogated by Raman spectroscopy at each centre and classified into one of five pathologies. The overall accuracy and log-loss did not significantly vary when a model trained upon data from any one centre was applied to data taken at the other centres. Computational methods to correct for the data during pre-processing were not needed.\nWe have found that when using the same make and model of spectrometer, together with a common protocol, across different centres it is possible to achieve system transferability without the need for additional computational instrument correction.", 
    "abstract": "The management of a food supply chain is difficult and complex because of the product's short shelf-life, time-sensitivity, and perishable nature which must be carefully considered to minimize food waste. Temperature-controlled perishable food supply chain provides the highly crucial facilities necessary to maintain the quality and safety of the product. The storage temperature is the most vital factor in maintaining both the quality and shelf-life of a perishable food. Adequate storage temperature control ensures that perishable foods are transported to the end-users in good quality and safe to consume. This paper presents perishable food storage temperature control through mathematical optimal control model where the storage temperature is regarded as the control variable and the deterioration of the perishable food's quality follows the first-order reaction. The optimal storage temperature for a single perishable food is determined by applying the Pontryagin's maximum principle to solve the optimal control model problem. For multi-temperature commodities supply chain, an unsupervised machine learning (ML) method, called k-means clustering technique is used to determine the temperature clusters for a range of perishables. Based on descriptive analysis, it is observed that the k-means clustering technique is effective in identifying the best suitable storage temperature clusters for quality control of multi-commodity supply chain.", 
    "abstract": "Training machine learning models for tasks such as de novo sequencing or spectral clustering requires large collections of confidently identified spectra. Here we describe a dataset of 2.8 million high-confidence peptide-spectrum matches derived from nine different species. The dataset is based on a previously described benchmark but has been re-processed to ensure consistent data quality and enforce separation of training and test peptides.", 
    "abstract": "Erectile Dysfunction (ED) is a form of sexual dysfunction in males that imposes significant health and financial burdens globally. Despite its high prevalence, diagnosing ED remains challenging due to the limitations of current diagnostic methods and patients' reluctance to seek medical help. Currently, some studies have used machine learning techniques for developing ED prediction models, but the performance and interpretability of existing models need to be further improved. This study utilized data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) for the years 2001 to 2004, adhering to the Transparent Reporting of a Multivariable Prediction Model for Individual Prognosis or Diagnosis (TRIPOD) statement. After excluding male respondents who did not meet the study criteria, a total of 3,869 participants were included. Gradient boosting decision tree (GBDT) algorithms (XGBoost, CatBoost, LightGBM) were used to develop the ED prediction model. Data preprocessing, feature selection, model evaluation, and interpretability analysis were performed to ensure the reliability and effectiveness of the model. The model evaluation results revealed that the AUC values are XGBoost: 0.887\u2009\u00b1\u20090.016; LightGBM: 0.879\u2009\u00b1\u20090.016; CatBoost: 0.871\u2009\u00b1\u20090.019. The F1-Scores are XGBoost: 0.695\u2009\u00b1\u20090.023; LightGBM: 0.681\u2009\u00b1\u20090.025; CatBoost: 0.681\u2009\u00b1\u20090.025. The Recall values are XGBoost: 0.789\u2009\u00b1\u20090.026; LightGBM: 0.739\u2009\u00b1\u20090.030; CatBoost: 0.711\u2009\u00b1\u20090.030. These results confirmed that the XGBoost model is the best-performing ED prediction model in this study. Interpretability analysis results of the XGBoost model showed that age, obesity, cardiovascular risk factors, prostate-related diseases, and socioeconomic status are key features for predicting ED, playing a significant role in the ED mechanism. Therefore, we believe the ED prediction model trained in this study has strong predictive performance and high interpretability. This model can help to expand the diagnostic options for ED, improve the diagnosis rate of ED, and assist doctors in early intervention for patients with ED, ultimately improving patient prognosis.", 
    "abstract": "Four distinct neural models were used to evaluate the efficiency of a V-trough solar water heater (VTSWH) equipped with square-cut twisted tape (SCTT) and V-cut twisted tape (VCTT) at two different twist ratios, 3 and 5. The objective of this study was the use of ANFIS (Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System), G.L.R. (Generalised linear regression), R.T. (Regression tree), and SVM (Support Vector Machine). A total of 162 data sets were acquired for these models through a variety of trials. Outdoor experiments were done using a twist ratio of Y\u2009=\u20093 and Y\u2009=\u20095, using both SCTT and VCTT. The models included eight distinct variables: ambient temperature, water mass flow rate, water intake temperature, water exit temperature, absorber plate temperature, tube temperature, solar intensity, and twist ratio. The dependent variables in this study are the Nusselt number (Nu), friction factor (FF), and efficiency (\u03b7). 130 datasets were chosen for training purposes, while 32 were used for testing. Using the ANFIS, G.L.R., R.T., and SVM techniques, the correlation coefficient (R", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Renal Tumor biopsy (RTB) can assist clinicians in determining the most suitable approach for treatment of renal cancer. However, RTB's limitations in accurately determining histology and grading have hindered its broader adoption and data on the concordance rate between RTB results and final pathology after surgery are unavailable. Therefore, we aimed to develop a machine learning algorithm to optimize RTB technique and to investigate the degree of concordance between RTB and surgical pathology reports.\nWithin a prospectively maintained database, patients with indeterminate renal masses who underwent RTB at a single tertiary center were identified. We recorded and analyzed the approach (US vs. CT), the number of biopsy cores (NoC), and total core tissue length (LoC) to evaluate their impact on diagnostic outcomes. The K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), a non-parametric supervised machine learning model, predicted the probability of obtaining pathological characterization and grading. In surgical patients, final pathology reports were compared with RTB results.\nOverall, 197 patients underwent RTB. Overall, 89.8% (n=177) and 44.7% (n=88) of biopsies were informative in terms of histology and grading, respectively. The discrepancy rate between the pathology results from renal tissue biopsy (RTB) and the final pathology report following surgery was 3.6% (n=7) for histology and 5.0% (n=10) for grading. According to the machine learning model, a minimum of 2 cores providing at least 0.8 cm of total tissue should be obtained to achieve the best accuracy in characterizing the cancer. Alternatively, in cases of RTB with more than two cores, no specific minimum tissue threshold is required.\nThe discordance rates between RTB pathology and final surgical pathology are notably minimal. We defined an optimal renal biopsy strategy based on at least 2 cores and at least 0.8 cm of tissue or at least 3 cores and no minimum tissue threshold.\nRTB is a useful test for kidney cancer, but it's not always perfect. Our study shows that it usually matches up well with what doctors find during surgery. Using machine learning can make RTB even better by helping doctors know how many samples to take. This helps doctors treat kidney cancer more accurately.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Brain metastases (BrM) occur when malignant cells spread from a primary tumor located in other parts of the body to the brain. BrM is a deadly complication for cancer patients and severely lacks effective therapies. Due to the limited access to patient samples, preclinical models remain a very valuable tool for studying metastasis development, progression, and response to therapy. Thus, reliable methods to assess metastatic burden in these models are crucial. Here we describe step by step a new semi-automatic machine-learning approach to quantify metastatic burden on mouse whole-brain stereomicroscope images while preserving tissue integrity. This protocol uses the open-source and user-friendly image analysis software QuPath. The method is fast, reproducible, unbiased, and gives access to data points not always accessible with other existing strategies.", 
    "abstract": "The human interleukin-1 receptor I (IL-1R1) is a cytokine receptor recognized by interleukin 1\u03b2 (IL-1\u03b2), among other cytokines. Over activation of IL-1R1 has been implicated in various inflammatory conditions. This research aims to identify small-molecule inhibitors targeting the hIL1R1/IL1\u03b2 interaction, employing a multi-task transfer learning approach for quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) modelling. A comprehensive bioactivity dataset from functionally related proteins was utilised to build a robust ensemble machine learning model for predicting IC", 
    "abstract": "Drug discovery is a complex and multifaceted process aimed at identifying new therapeutic compounds with the potential to treat various diseases. Traditional methods of drug discovery are often time-consuming, expensive, and characterized by low success rates. Because of this, there is an urgent need to improve the drug development process using new technologies. The integration of the current state-of-art of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) approaches with conventional methods will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of pharmaceutical research. This review highlights the transformative impact of AI and ML in drug discovery, discussing current applications, challenges, and future directions in harnessing these technologies to accelerate the development of innovative therapeutics. We have discussed the latest developments in AI and ML technologies to streamline several stages of drug discovery, from target identification and validation to lead optimization and preclinical studies.", 
    "abstract": "Depression is a complex mental illness that has significant effects on people as well as society. The traditional techniques for the diagnosis of depression, along with the potential of nascent biomarkers especially EEG-based biomarkers, are studied. This review explores the significance of cognitive biomarkers, offering a comprehensive understanding of their role in the overall assessment of depression. It also investigates the effects of depression on various brain regions, outlines promising areas for future research, and emphasizes the importance of understanding the neurophysiological roots of depression. Furthermore, it elucidates how machine learning and deep learning models are integrated into EEG-based depression diagnosis, emphasizing their importance in optimizing personalized therapeutic protocols and improving diagnostic accuracy with EEG data analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Heterogeneous ventricular activation can provide the substrate for ventricular arrhythmias (VA), but its manifestation on the ECG as a risk stratifier is not well-defined.\nTo characterize the spatiotemporal features of QRS peaks that best predict VA in patients with cardiomyopathy (CM) using machine learning (ML).\nProspectively enrolled CM patients with prophylactic defibrillators (n=95) underwent digital, high-resolution ECG recordings during intrinsic rhythm and ventricular pacing at 100-120bpm. Intra QRS peaks in the signal-averaged precordial leads were identified and their characteristics (amplitude, width and timing within the QRS) were transformed into 4-bin histograms. Random forest models of these characteristics in each lead alongside clinical data were trained on 76 patients and tested on 19 patients with cross-validation to determine the features that predicted VA.\nPatients were followed for 45 (22-48) months and 21% had VA. The individual ML models determined (AUROC) intrinsic QRS peak amplitude (0.88), width (0.78) and location (0.84) to all predict VA. In a combined model including all QRS peak characteristics, peaks with amplitude <31uV in V1, a width 4-8ms in V1, and location in the final quarter of the QRS of V1 were most predictive. Neither clinical data nor QRS peak characteristics assessed during ventricular pacing improved VA prediction when combined with intrinsic QRS peak characteristics.\nArrhythmogenic QRS fragmentation is characterized by narrow, low-amplitude peaks in the terminal QRS of lead V1. These features alone without clinical variables or ventricular pacing are sufficient to accurately risk stratify CM patients.", 
    "abstract": "Biogas yield in anaerobic digestion (AD) involves continuous and complex biological reactions. The traditional linear models failed to quantitatively assess the interactive effects of these factors on AD performance. To further explore the internal relationship between target variables and AD performance, this study developed four machine learning models to predict biogas yield and consider the interaction among various factors. Results indicated that the highest prediction accuracy of AD performance was achieved by adding bacterial genera dataset with environmental factors. Random forest model exhibited the highest accuracy, with the testing coefficient of determination equal to 0.9879. Among two types of input features, the bacterial genera accounted for 89.9\u00a0% of the impact on biogas yield, followed by environmental factors. The results revealed Keratinibaculum and Acetomicrobium as critical bacteria. The volatile fatty acid controlled below 2000\u00a0mg/L and the improved stirring system in AD process were recommended to achieve maximum biogas yield.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Computational models that can predict growth and remodeling of the heart could have important clinical applications. However, the time it takes to calibrate and run current models while considering data uncertainty and variability makes them impractical for routine clinical use. This study aims to address this need by creating a computational framework to efficiently predict cardiac growth probability. We utilized a biophysics model to rapidly simulate cardiac growth following mitral valve regurgitation (MVR). Here we developed a two-tiered Bayesian History Matching approach augmented with Gaussian process emulators for efficient calibration of model parameters to align with growth outcomes within a 95% confidence interval. We first generated a synthetic data set to assess the accuracy of our framework, and the effect of changes in data uncertainty on growth predictions. We then calibrated our model to match baseline and chronic canine MVR data and used an independent data set to successfully validate the ability of our calibrated model to accurately predict cardiac growth probability. The combined biophysics and machine learning modeling framework we proposed in this study can be easily translated to predict patient-specific cardiac growth.", 
    "abstract": "Cereals, grains, and feedstuffs are prone to contamination by fungi during various stages from growth to storage. These fungi may produce harmful mycotoxins impacting food quality and safety. Thus, the development of quick and reliable methods for on-site application is crucial for ensuring food safety and quality monitoring. Herein, we have developed an efficient sensor array based on hierarchically modified metal oxides with azodye-based metal complexes for on-site detection and segregation of harmful mycotoxins present in corn samples. The functionalized material has been fully characterized utilizing various sophisticated techniques. The sensor array successfully detected and differentiated five different mycotoxins with 100\u00a0% efficiency, validated by linear discriminant analysis (LDA) score plots. The limit of detection, as determined from calibration curves, ranges from 0.02 to 0.09\u00a0ppm for the respective mycotoxins. Additionally, the sensor array has also demonstrated 100\u00a0% accuracy in discriminating binary and ternary ratios of mycotoxins in real sample analyses.", 
    "abstract": "Significant challenges persist in the early identification of microsatellite instability (MSI) within current clinical practice. In recent years, with the growing utilization of machine learning (ML) in the diagnosis and management of gastric cancer (GC), numerous researchers have explored the effectiveness of ML methodologies in detecting MSI. Nevertheless, the predictive value of these approaches still lacks comprehensive evidence. Accordingly, this study was carried out to consolidate the accuracy of ML in the prompt detection of MSI in GC.\nPubMed, the Cochrane Library, the Web of Science, and Embase were retrieved up to March 20, 2024. The risk of bias in the encompassed studies was evaluated utilizing a risk assessment tool for predictive models. Models were then subjected to subgroup analysis based on the modeling variables.\nA total of 12 studies, encompassing 11,912 patients with GC, satisfied the predefined inclusion criteria. ML models established in these studies were primarily based on pathological images, clinical features, and radiomics. The results suggested that in the validation sets, the pathological image-based models had a synthesized c-index of 0.86 [95\u00a0% CI (0.83-0.89)], with sensitivity and specificity being 0.86 [95\u00a0% CI (0.76-0.92)] and 0.83 [95\u00a0% CI (0.78-0.87)], respectively; radiomics feature-based models achieved respective values of 0.87 [95\u00a0% CI (0.81-0.92)], 0.77 [95\u00a0% CI (0.70-0.83)] and 0.81 [95\u00a0% CI (0.74-0.87)]; radiomics feature-based models\u00a0+\u00a0clinical feature-based models achieved respective values of 0.87 [95\u00a0% CI (0.81-0.93)], 0.78 [95\u00a0% CI (0.70-0.84)] and 0.79 [95\u00a0% CI (0.69-0.86)].\nML has demonstrated optimal performance in detecting MSI in GC and could serve as a prospective early adjunctive detection tool for MSI in GC. Future research should contemplate minimally invasive or non-invasive, readily collectible, and efficient predictors to augment the predictive accuracy of ML.", 
    "abstract": "Arsenic, a poisonous and carcinogenic heavy metal in drinking water, presents severe health risks to humans, including skin lesions, neurological damage, and circulatory disorders. Despite extensive research efforts have been carried out on removing arsenate (As(V)) using membrane technologies, however, there remains a critical need to further enhance membrane removal efficacy to achieve maximum reusability. Thus, to minimize this challenge, herein we explore the impact of S-functionalized Mxene coating over the surface of quaternary ammonium poly (2,6-dimethyl-1,4-phenylene oxide)/polyvinyl alcohol (QPPO/PVA) anion exchange AEM membrane against As(V) removal. To optimize and validate adsorption efficacy, response surface methodology (RSM) study was carried out using a central composite design (CCD) with R", 
    "abstract": "Ovarian cancer (OC), the second leading cause of death among gynecological cancers, is often diagnosed at an advanced stage due to its asymptomatic nature at early stages. This study aimed to explore the diagnostic potential of plasma-based lipidomics combined with machine learning (ML) in OC. Non-targeted lipidomics analysis was conducted on plasma samples from participants with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), benign ovarian tumor (BOT), and healthy control (HC). The samples were randomly divided into a train set and a test set. Differential lipids between groups were selected using two-tailed Student's t-test and partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA). Both single lipid-based receiver operating characteristic (ROC) model, and multiple lipid-based ML model, were constructed to investigate the diagnostic value of the differential lipids. The results showed several lipids with significant diagnostic potential. ST 27:2;O achieved the highest prediction accuracy of 0.92 in distinguishing EOC from HC. DG 42:2 had the highest prediction accuracy of 0.96 in diagnosing BOT from HC. Cer d18:1/18:0 had the highest prediction accuracy of 0.65 in differentiating EOC from BOT. Furthermore, multiple lipid-based ML models illustrated better diagnostic performance. K-nearest neighbors (k-NN), partial least squares (PLS), and random forest (RF) models achieved the highest prediction accuracy of 0.96 in discriminating EOC from HC. The support vector machine (SVM) model reached the highest prediction accuracy both in distinguishing BOT from HC, and in differentiating EOC from BOT, with accuracies of 1.00 and 0.74, respectively. In conclusion, this study revealed that the combination of plasma-based lipidomics and ML algorithms is an effective method for diagnosing OC.", 
    "abstract": "Liquid alkali metal alloys have garnered significant attention because of their potential applications in coolant systems and batteries, driven by the need for environmental conservation and technological development. However, research on these complex systems is limited, necessitating a deeper understanding to ensure their safe and effective utilization. This study presents a comprehensive investigation of the factors that determine the phase diagram of Rb", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study is to explore the utility of Inductive Decision Tree models (IDTs) in distinguishing between benign, malignant, and high-risk (B3) breast lesions.\nWe analyzed 124 histologically confirmed lesions in 114 patients who underwent breast MR with BI-RADS 4 or 5 assessment. The dataset comprised 10 imaging parameters and one clinical observation. Using the IDTs method (algorithm C5.0 boosted with AdaBoost algorithm) combined with the data balancing method SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique) and a corresponding new method called LCC (Leveling of Cases per Class), we developed corresponding 3-class classification models (Benign, B3, or Malignant). The training set used for classification model development consists of 112 cases with 12 variables, and the model's performance was assessed using 10-fold Cross-Validation and Leave-One-Out methods (utilizing the training set) and the Use Test Set method (testing on an unknown (for the models) dataset of 12 cases with 12 variables).\nThis preliminary study demonstrates the potential for IDTs to accurately distinguish between benign, B3 and Malignant lesions based on extracted data from breast MRI exams with a high classification accuracy (88.70\u00a0%), mean sensitivity of 97.18\u00a0% and specificity of 98.59\u00a0% achieved by the optimal classification model, derived from the combination of the IDTs method and the LCC data balancing method.", 
    "abstract": "Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS) measurement data and machine learning were used in this work to classify six different types of plastics. In order to take into account the characteristics of the measurement data, the local maxima of the measurement data were first examined in a preprocessing step. Several machine learning methods were then implemented to create a model that could successfully classify the plastics. To visualize the data distribution, we applied a dimensionality reduction method, namely, principal component analysis. Finally, to distinguish between the six types of plastics, we conducted an ensemble analysis using four tree-based algorithms: decision tree, random forest, gradient boosting, and LIGHTGBM. This approach can identify the feature importance of plastic samples and allow the inference of the chemical properties of each plastic type. In this way, ToF-SIMS data could be utilized to successfully classify plastics and enhance explainability.", 
    "abstract": "By monitoring evapotranspiration (ET), the exchange of water and energy between the soil, plants, and the atmosphere can be controlled. Routine estimations of ET on a daily, monthly, and seasonal basis can give relevant information on small-scale agricultural practices, such as the Ribb watershed in Ethiopia. However, MODIS sensors have recently given high temporal resolution ET products across large areas, but their low spatial resolution limits its application on a local scale. The primary goal of the study was to downscale the MODIS ET (1\u00a0km) product to a finer spatial resolution at the watershed level. The model's 12 predictor variables (NDVI, EVI, LAI, FVC, SAVI, NDMI, NDWI, Albedo, emissivity, LST, and DEM: slope and elevation) were produced using the random forest (RF) algorithm using Sentinel-2 (S-2) 20\u00a0m and Landsat-8 (L-8) 30\u00a0m. The RF regression model was used to assess the relationship between predicted variables and downscaled MODIS ET. The FAO-PM ET model, developed from meteorological stations, was validated by ", 
    "abstract": "Single-vesicle molecular profiling of cancer-associated extracellular vesicles (EVs) is increasingly being recognized as a powerful tool for cancer detection and monitoring. Mask and target dual imaging is a facile method to quantify the fraction of the molecularly targeted population of EVs in biofluids at the single-vesicle level. However, accurate and efficient dual imaging vesicle analysis has been challenging due to the interference of false signals on the mask images and the need to analyze a large number of images in clinical samples. In this work, we report a fully automatic dual imaging analysis method based on machine learning and use it with dual imaging single-vesicle technology (DISVT) to detect breast cancer at different stages. The convolutional neural network Resnet34 was used along with transfer learning to produce a suitable machine learning model that could accurately identify areas of interest in experimental data. A combination of experimental and synthetic data were used to train the model. Using DISVT and our machine learning-assisted image analysis platform, we determined the fractions of EpCAM-positive EVs and CD24-positive EVs over captured plasma EVs with CD81 marker in the blood plasma of pilot HER2-positive breast cancer patients and compared to those from healthy donors. The amount of both EpCAM-positive and CD24-positive EVs was found negligible for both healthy donors and Stage I patients. The amount of EpCAM-positive EVs (also CD81-positive) increased from 18% to 29% as the cancer progressed from Stage II to III. No significant increase was found with further progression to Stage IV. A similar trend was found for the CD24-positive EVs. Statistical analysis showed that both EpCAM and CD24 markers can detect HER2-positive breast cancer at Stages II, III, or IV. They can also differentiate individual cancer stages except those between Stage III and Stage IV. Due to the simplicity, high sensitivity, and high efficiency, the DISVT with the AI-assisted dual imaging analysis can be widely used for both basic research and clinical applications to quantitatively characterize molecularly targeted EV subtypes in biofluids.", 
    "abstract": "Researching the rheology contributes to enhancing the physical and mechanical properties of concrete and promoting material sustainability. Despite the challenges posed by numerous factors influencing viscosity, leveraging machine learning in the era of big data emerges as a viable solution for predicting the general properties of construction materials. This study aims to create models to forecast the rheological properties of cementitious materials containing fly ash and nanosilica. Four models-Random Forest, XGBoost, ANN, and RNN (Stacked LSTM)-are employed to predict and assess shear rate versus shear stress and shear rate versus apparent viscosity curves. Through hyperparameter adjustments, RNN (Stacked LSTM) exhibits excellent performance, achieving a coefficient of determination (R", 
    "abstract": "The synthesis, characterization, and application of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have long posed significant challenges due to the inherent multiple complexity nature involved in their production, processing, and analysis. Recent advancements in machine learning (ML) have provided researchers with novel and powerful tools to address these challenges. This review explores the role of ML in the field of CNT research, focusing on how ML has enhanced CNT research by (1) revolutionizing CNT synthesis through the optimization of complex multivariable systems, enabling autonomous synthesis systems, and reducing reliance on conventional trial-and-error approaches; (2) improving the accuracy and efficiency of CNT characterizations; and (3) accelerating the development of CNT applications across several fields such as electronics, composites, and biomedical fields. This review concludes by offering perspectives on the future potential of integrating ML further into CNT research, highlighting its role in driving the field forward.", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive decline in Parkinson's disease (PD) varies widely. While models to predict cognitive progression exist, comparing traditional probabilistic models to deep learning methods remains understudied. This study compares sequential modeling techniques to identify cognitive progression in individuals with and without PD. Using data from the Parkinson's Progression Marker Initiative, shallow Markov, deep recurrent (long short-term memory [LSTM]), and nonrecurrent (temporal fusion transformer [TFT]) models were compared to predict cognitive status over time. Cognitive status was categorized into normal cognition (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and dementia. Predictions were made annually for up to 3\u2009years using clinical data, including demographics, cognitive assessments, PD severity, and medical history. Each approach was evaluated using inverse probability weighted (IPW-) F1 scores. An ensemble method combined outputs from the Markov, LSTM, and TFT models. The dataset included 917 individuals (53% PD; 30% at risk for PD; 17% Healthy Controls). The TFT model outperformed others across all annual periods (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.468) compared to the Markov (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.349) and LSTM (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.414) models, with improved performance using an ensemble approach (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.502). For MCI and dementia predictions, which were rarer occurrences compared to NC status (ratios: 50:8:1), the TFT model consistently outperformed competing models, achieving IPW-F1 scores of 0.496 and 0.533 for MCI and dementia, respectively. In conclusion, sequential deep learning models like TFT, which mitigate long-term memory loss and can interpret complex, high-dimensional data, perform best overall in predicting clinically important cognitive transitions. These methods should be further explored for predicting degenerative conditions.", 
    "abstract": "The chemical reactions between certain interstellar molecules are exothermic in nature and barrierless in the entrance channel, allowing these reactions to occur rapidly even at low astronomical temperatures, e.g., C and O2 interaction. Obtaining detailed rovibrational transition parameters for the reaction between C and O2, such as state-selected rate coefficients, is crucial for studying the associated atmospheric and astronomical environments. Hence, this work presents an approach that combines quasi-classical trajectory calculations with machine learning techniques based on Neural Network (NN) and Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) to determine state-selected rate coefficients. Employing this approach, we significantly reduced the computational requirements while simultaneously obtaining the accurate state-selected reaction cross sections and rate coefficients for the collision of C and O2. Both the NN-based and GPR-based models established in this work accurately predict the results calculated from explicit numerical calculations in the explored temperature range of 50-1500\u00a0K, achieving a coefficient of determination R2 > 0.96. Most importantly, the current work provides the most comprehensive dataset of rovibrational rate coefficients of v = 0-4, j = 0-70 \u2192 v' = 0-15 for the astrophysical modeling of the C-O2 collision system.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Insect neuropeptide allatostatins (ASTs) play a vital role in regulating insect growth, development, and reproduction, making them potential candidates for new insect growth regulators (IGRs). However, the practical use of natural ASTs in pest management is constrained by their long sequences and high production costs, thus the development of AST analogs with shorter sequences and reduced cost is essential. Traditional methods for designing AST analogs are often time-consuming and resource-intensive. This study aims to employ new computational methodologies to understand the structure-activity relationship and efficiently discover potent AST analogs.\nTwo machine learning models, utilizing multiple linear regression and support vector machine, were constructed to reveal the key structural factors that influence the juvenile hormone-inhibiting activity of AST analogs. These models suggested that a potent AST analog should contain styrene, hydrophilic, and aromatic groups, and rotatable bonds at positions 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Six analogs (A52-A57) were designed and synthesized, and they exhibited potent juvenile hormone-inhibiting activity (IC\nThese models promote the efficient design, screening, and prioritization of new or untested AST analogs. The study clarifies how a machine learning-based strategy facilitates the development of AST analogs as novel IGR lead candidates, offering a useful reference for pest management. \u00a9 2024 Society of Chemical Industry.", 
    "abstract": "Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) is a key indicator of cardiac health. The gold-standard method of measuring LVEDP is invasive intra-cardiac catheterization. Echocardiography is used for non-invasive estimation of left ventricular (LV) filling pressures; however, correlation with invasive LVEDP is variable. We sought to use machine learning (ML) algorithms to predict elevated LVEDP (>20 mmHg) using clinical, echocardiographic, and biomarker parameters.\nWe identified a cohort of 460 consecutive patients from the Cleveland Clinic, without atrial fibrillation or significant mitral valve disease who underwent transthoracic echocardiography within 24 hours of elective heart catheterization between January 2008 and October 2010. We included patients' clinical (e.g., heart rate), echocardiographic (e.g., E/e'), and biomarker [e.g., N-terminal brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP)] profiles. We fit logistic regression (LR), random forest (RF), gradient boosting (GB), support vector machine (SVM), and K-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithms in a 20-iteration train-validate-test workflow and measured performance using average area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC). We also predicted elevated tau (>45 ms), the gold-standard parameter for LV diastolic dysfunction, and performed multi-class classification of the patients' cardiac conditions. For each outcome, LR weights were used to identify clinically relevant variables.\nML algorithms predicted elevated LVEDP (>20 mmHg) with good performance [AUROC =0.761, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.725-0.796]. ML models showed excellent performance predicting elevated tau (>45 ms) (AUROC =0.832, 95% CI: 0.700-0.964) and classifying cardiac conditions (AUROC =0.757-0.975). We identified several clinical variables [e.g., diastolic blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), heart rate, left atrial volume, mitral valve deceleration time, and NT-proBNP] relevant for LVEDP prediction.\nOur study shows ML approaches can robustly predict elevated LVEDP and tau. ML may assist in the clinical interpretation of echocardiographic data.", 
    "abstract": "The thumb function is complex, and accurate evaluation through images or videos is difficult. Pose estimation, a technology that uses artificial intelligence (AI) to estimate skeletal detection of the body, is gaining popularity.\u00a0In this study, we combined the pose estimation library MediaPipe-Hands and five machine learning (ML) models to predict the radial abduction angle of the thumb.\u00a0Radial abduction movements of 20 hands from 10 healthy volunteers were captured on video and processed into 5,000 images. Angle measurements by goniometer were used as true values to evaluate the angle reliability of the MediaPipe-Hands and the angle reliability of the MediaPipe-Hands combined with ML. The correlation coefficient (CC) between the angle measured by goniometry and the angle calculated by MediaPipe-Hands was 0.84. In contrast, applying ML to MediaPipe-Hands resulted in models with improved accuracy, and all models showed high CCs (0.94-099) with angle measurements taken by goniometry. The ML model also predicted the abduction angles when the camera was taken from three different angles. In visualizing the features that the AI deemed important, the ML model predicted the abduction angle by focusing on the tip distance between the thumb and index finger along with the angle of the metacarpophalangeal joint between the thumb and middle finger. These results enable angle estimation even without frontal imaging with a camera, and expansion of this system may lead to real-time functional assessment in telemedicine and rehabilitation without the need for physical contact.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality. The diagnosis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) plays a crucial role in the management of NAFLD patients.\nThe aim of our observational study was to build a machine learning model to identify NASH in NAFLD patients.\nThe clinical characteristics of 259 NAFLD patients and their initial laboratory data (Cohort 1) were collected to train the model and carry out internal validation. We compared the models built by five machine learning algorithms and screened out the best models. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were used to evaluate the performance of the model. In addition, the NAFLD patients in Cohort 2 (n\u00a0=\u00a0181) were externally verified.\nWe finally identified six independent risk factors for predicting NASH, including neutrophil percentage (NEU%), aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase (AST/ALT), hematocrit (HCT), creatinine (CREA), uric acid (UA), and prealbumin (PA). The NASH-XGB6 model built using the XGBoost algorithm showed sufficient prediction accuracy, with ROC values of 0.95 (95\u00a0% CI, 0.91-0.98) and 0.90 (95\u00a0% CI, 0.88-0.93) in Cohort 1 and Cohort 2, respectively.\nNASH-XGB6 can serve as an effective tool for distinguishing NASH patients from NAFLD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Investigating the bioaccessibility of harmful inorganic elements in soil is crucial for understanding their behavior in the environment and accurately assessing the environmental risks associated with soil. Traditional batch experimental methods and linear models, however, are time-consuming and often fall short in precisely quantifying bioaccessibility. In this study, using 937 data points gathered from 56 journal articles, we developed machine learning models for three harmful inorganic elements, namely, Cd, Pb, and As. After thorough analysis, the model optimized through a boosting ensemble strategy demonstrated the best performance, with an average ", 
    "abstract": "Vibrational spectroscopy methods such as mid-infrared (MIR), near-infrared (NIR), and Raman spectroscopies have been shown to have great potential for in vivo biomedical applications, such as arthroscopic evaluation of joint injuries and degeneration. Considering that these techniques provide complementary chemical information, in this study, we hypothesized that combining the MIR, NIR, and Raman data from human osteochondral samples can improve the detection of cartilage degradation. This study evaluated 272 osteochondral samples from 18 human knee joins, comprising both healthy and damaged tissue according to the reference Osteoarthritis Research Society International grading system. We established the one-block and multi-block classification models using partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLSDA), random forest, and support vector machine (SVM) algorithms. Feature modeling by principal component analysis was tested for the SVM (PCA-SVM) models. The best one-block models were built using MIR and Raman data, discriminating healthy cartilage from damaged with an accuracy of 77.5% for MIR and 77.8% for Raman using the PCA-SVM algorithm, whereas the NIR data did not perform as well achieving only 68.5% accuracy for the best model using PCA-SVM. The multi-block approach allowed an improvement with an accuracy of 81.4% for the best model by PCA-SVM. Fusing three blocks using MIR, NIR, and Raman by multi-block PLSDA significantly improved the performance of the single-block models to 79.1% correct classification. The significance was proven by statistical testing using analysis of variance. Thus, the study suggests the potential and the complementary value of the fusion of different spectroscopic techniques and provides valuable data analysis tools for the diagnostics of cartilage health.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. Given that AD neuropathology begins decades before symptoms, there is a dire need for effective screening tools for early detection of AD to facilitate early intervention.\nHere, we used tree-based and deep learning methods to train polyomic prediction models for AD affection status and age at onset, employing genomic, proteomic, metabolomic, and drug use data from UK Biobank. We used SHAP to determine the feature's importance.\nOur best-performing polyomic model achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUROC) of 0.87. We identified GFAP and CXCL17 proteins to be the strongest predictors of AD, besides apolipoprotein E (APOE) alleles. Increasing the number of cases by including \"AD-by-proxy\" cases did not improve AD prediction.\nAmong the four modalities, genomics, and proteomics were the most informative modality based on AUROC (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve). Our data suggest that two blood-based biomarkers (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP] and CXCL17) may be effective for early presymptomatic prediction of AD.\nWe developed a polyomic model to predict AD and age-at-onset using omics and medication use data from EHR. We identified GFAP and CXCL17 proteins to be the strongest predictors of AD, besides APOE alleles. \"AD-by-proxy\" cases, if used in training, do not improve AD prediction. Proteomics was the most informative modality overall for affection status and AAO prediction.", 
    "abstract": "Proteins interact with each other in complex ways to perform significant biological functions. These interactions, known as protein-protein interactions (PPIs), can be depicted as a graph where proteins are nodes and their interactions are edges. The development of high-throughput experimental technologies allows for the generation of numerous data which permits increasing the sophistication of PPI models. However, despite significant progress, current PPI networks remain incomplete. Discovering missing interactions through experimental techniques can be costly, time-consuming, and challenging. Therefore, computational approaches have emerged as valuable tools for predicting missing interactions. In PPI networks, a graph is usually used to model the interactions between proteins. An edge between two proteins indicates a known interaction, while the absence of an edge means the interaction is not known or missed. However, this binary representation overlooks the reliability of known interactions when predicting new ones. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach for link prediction in weighted protein-protein networks, where interaction weights denote confidence scores. By leveraging data from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae obtained from the STRING database, we introduce a new model that combines similarity-based algorithms and aggregated confidence score weights for accurate link prediction purposes. Our model significantly improves prediction accuracy, surpassing traditional approaches in terms of Mean Absolute Error, Mean Relative Absolute Error, and Root Mean Square Error. Our proposed approach holds the potential for improved accuracy in predicting PPIs, which is crucial for better understanding the underlying biological processes.", 
    "abstract": "Color is one of the most important indicators to characteristic the quality of tobacco, which is strongly related to the variations of chemical components. In order to clarify the relationship between the changes of tobacco color and chemical components, here we established several prediction models of chemical components with the color values of tobacco based on machine learning algorithms. The results of correlation analysis showed that tobacco moisture content was highly significantly correlated with the parameters such as a", 
    "abstract": "Clinical risk scores that predict outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) have modest predictive value. Machine learning (ML) may achieve greater results when predicting adverse outcomes in patients with recently diagnosed AF. Several ML models were tested and compared with current clinical risk scores on a cohort of 26,183 patients (mean age 70.13 (standard deviation 10.13); 44.8% female) with non-valvular AF. Inputted into the ML models were 23 demographic variables alongside comorbidities and current treatments. For one-year stroke prediction, ML achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.653 (95% confidence interval 0.576-0.730), compared to the CHADS", 
    "abstract": "Given the limited capacity to accurately determine the necessity for intubation in intensive care unit settings, this study aimed to develop and externally validate an interpretable machine learning model capable of predicting the need for intubation among ICU patients. Seven widely used machine learning (ML) algorithms were employed to construct the prediction models. Adult patients from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care IV database who stayed in the ICU for longer than 24\u00a0h were included in the development and internal validation. The model was subsequently externally validated using the eICU-CRD database. In addition, the SHapley Additive exPlanations method was employed to interpret the influence of individual parameters on the predictions made by the model. A total of 11,988 patients were included in the final cohort for this study. The CatBoost model demonstrated the best performance (AUC: 0.881). In the external validation set, the efficacy of our model was also confirmed (AUC: 0.750), which suggests robust generalization capabilities. The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), body mass index (BMI), arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO", 
    "abstract": "Tuberculosis disease (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), is a major global public health problem, resulting in >\u20091\u00a0million deaths each year. Drug resistance (DR), including the multi-drug form (MDR-TB), is challenging control of the disease. Whilst many DR mutations in the Mtb genome are known, analysis of large datasets generated using whole genome sequencing (WGS) platforms can reveal new variants through the assessment of genotype-phenotype associations. Here, we apply tree-based ensemble methods to a dataset comprised of 35,777 Mtb WGS and phenotypic drug-susceptibility test data across first- and second-line drugs. We compare model performance across models trained using mutations in drug-specific regions and genome-wide variants, and find high predictive ability for both first-line (area under ROC curve (AUC); range 88.3-96.5) and second-line (AUC range 84.1-95.4) drugs. To aggregate information from low-frequency variants, we pool mutations by functional impact and observe large improvements in predictive accuracy (e.g., sensitivity: pyrazinamide\u2009+\u200925%; ethionamide\u2009+\u200910%). We further characterise loss-of-function mutations observed in resistant phenotypes, uncovering putative markers of resistance (e.g., ndh 293dupG, Rv3861 78delC). Finally, we profile the distribution of known DR-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms across discretised minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) data generated from phenotypic testing (n\u2009=\u200912,066), and identify mutations associated with highly resistant phenotypes (e.g., inhA -\u2009779G\u2009>\u2009T and 62T\u2009>\u2009C). Overall, our work demonstrates that applying machine learning to large-scale WGS data is useful for providing insights into predicting Mtb binary drug resistance and MIC phenotypes, thereby potentially assisting diagnosis and treatment decision-making for infection control.", 
    "abstract": "Viral oncoproteins play crucial roles in transforming normal cells into cancer cells, representing a significant factor in the etiology of various cancers. Traditionally, identifying these oncoproteins is both time-consuming and costly. With advancements in computational biology, bioinformatics tools based on machine learning have emerged as effective methods for predicting biological activities. Here, for the first time, we propose an innovative approach that combines Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) with supervised learning methods to enhance the accuracy and generalizability of viral oncoprotein prediction. Our methodology evaluated multiple machine learning models, including Random Forest, Multilayer Perceptron, Light Gradient Boosting Machine, eXtreme Gradient Boosting, and Support Vector Machine. In ten-fold cross-validation on our training dataset, the GAN-enhanced Random Forest model demonstrated superior performance metrics: 0.976 accuracy, 0.976 F1 score, 0.977 precision, 0.976 sensitivity, and 1.0 AUC. During independent testing, this model achieved 0.982 accuracy, 0.982 F1 score, 0.982 precision, 0.982 sensitivity, and 1.0 AUC. These results establish our new tool, VirOncoTarget, accessible via a web application. We anticipate that VirOncoTarget will be a valuable resource for researchers, enabling rapid and reliable viral oncoprotein prediction and advancing our understanding of their role in cancer biology.", 
    "abstract": "Nuclear fusion is entering the era of power plant-scale devices, which are now undergoing extensive studies to support the design phase. Plasma disruptions pose a high risk to these classes of devices because of the large stored thermal and magnetic energy which might jeopardize machine integrity and availability. Therefore,\u00a0disruptions within these devices must be virtually eliminated, and any disruptions which do happen must be highly mitigated. However, the characterisation, prediction and technology used to mitigate disruptions is still an area of active development. In this paper, the authors investigate the disruptions within ST40, with particular attention at the identification of causes and effects associated with disruptions, both from a physics basis and an engineering standpoint. This paper aims at presenting preliminary predictive analyses of ST40 plasma scenarios by exploiting Machine Learning techniques applied to an experimental database populated by plasma pulses executed during the ST40 2021-2022 experimental campaign. The database contains both disrupted and non-disrupted pulses. Using Machine Learning, common features within disruptions are automatically classified and identified, mapping the controllable operational space in terms of plasma displacement and variation of specific plasma internal parameters. The classification was validated by benchmarking the numerical reconstruction of the plasma dynamics with experimental data recovered from the plasma diagnostics. Subsequent Machine Learning analyses allowed the extrapolation of new disrupted plasma configurations for preliminary predictive simulations of the plasma column displacement. Thanks to the numerical simulations performed in MAXFEA environment, it is possible to investigate the plasma vertical displacement both during disrupted and regularly terminated plasma scenarios and to provide lessons to be learnt for the next ST40 experimental campaign and for the design of future ST devices.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The linkages between BrC optical properties and chemical composition remain inadequately understood, with quantified chromophores explaining less than 25% of ambient aerosol light absorption. This study characterized 38 typical chromophores in aerosols collected in Xi'an, with light absorption contributions to BrC ranging from 1.6 \u00b1 0.3 to 5.8 \u00b1 2.6% at 365 nm. Based on these quantified chromophores, an interpretable machine learning model and the Shapley Additive Explanation (SHAP) method were employed to explore the relationships between BrC optical properties and chemical composition. The model attained high accuracy with Pearson correlation coefficients (", 
    "abstract": "The decline in groundwater quality in intensive agricultural areas in recent years, driven by environmental change and intensified human activity, poses a significant threat to agricultural production and public health, requiring attention and effective management. However, distinguishing the specific impacts of various factors on groundwater quality remains challenging, which hinders the effective management and prevention of groundwater pollution. This research integrates a hydrochemical analysis with the Entropy-weighted Water Quality Index, Self-Organizing Map (SOM) approach, and Boruta algorithm to investigate groundwater chemical variations and their influencing factors in the Sanjiang Plain, an important grain-producing region in China. The findings reveal that, compared to 2012, the deep groundwater quality has improved, while the shallow groundwater quality has markedly deteriorated. This decline in shallow groundwater quality is primarily attributable to human activities and is characterized by elevated levels of chloride, sulfate, and nitrate and a shift in the groundwater hydrochemical facies from an HCO", 
    "abstract": "Microalgae can produce secondary metabolites like phycoerythrin (Phy). The effects of some microplastics (MPs), wastewater (WW), and light intensity (LI) parameters, including complex data sets, on Phy concentration from Porphyridium cruentum were investigated using machine learning methods in this study. Also, the deep learning (DL) model was developed to get the maximum phy concentration from the dataset. The dataset (232 data groups), including a feature set, polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), polystyrene (PS), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), WW, LI, and an output variable, Phy, were randomly divided into training and test sets to create and evaluate the models. The highest experimental and predicted Phy concentrations were 52.3\u00a0mg/g and 58.32\u00a0mg/g in a scenario with 15% WW, 80\u00a0mg/L PE, PP, PS, and PVC, and a LI of 175 \u03bcmolm", 
    "abstract": "Many tools have been developed to reduce metal artefacts in computed tomography (CT) images resulting from metallic prosthesis; however, their relative effectiveness in preserving image quality is poorly understood. This paper reviews the literature on novel metal artefact reduction (MAR) methods targeting large metal artefacts in fan-beam CT to examine their effectiveness in reducing metal artefacts and effect on image quality.\nThe PRISMA checklist was used to search for articles in five electronic databases (MEDLINE, Scopus, Web of Science, IEEE, EMBASE). Studies that assessed the effectiveness of recently developed MAR method on fan-beam CT images of hip and shoulder implants were reviewed. Study quality was assessed using the National Institute of Health (NIH) tool. Meta-analyses were conducted in R, and results that could not be meta-analysed were synthesised narratively.\nThirty-six studies were reviewed. Of these, 20 studies proposed statistical algorithms and 16 used machine learning (ML), and there were 19 novel comparators. Network meta-analysis of 19 studies showed that Recurrent Neural Network MAR (RNN-MAR) is more effective in reducing noise (LogOR 20.7; 95\u00a0% CI 12.6-28.9) without compromising image quality (LogOR 4.4; 95\u00a0% CI -13.8-22.5). The network meta-analysis and narrative synthesis showed novel MAR methods reduce noise more effectively than baseline algorithms, with five out of 23\u00a0ML methods significantly more effective than Filtered Back Projection (FBP) (p\u00a0<\u00a00.05). Computation time varied, but ML methods were faster than statistical algorithms.\nML tools are more effective in reducing metal artefacts without compromising image quality and are computationally faster than statistical algorithms. Overall, novel MAR methods were also more effective in reducing noise than the baseline reconstructions.\nImplementation research is needed to establish the clinical suitability of ML MAR in practice.", 
    "abstract": "Reactive bromine species (RBS) such as bromine atom (Br", 
    "abstract": "Binge eating disorder (BED) is the most frequent eating disorder, often confused with obesity, with which it shares several characteristics. Early identification could enable targeted therapeutic interventions. In this study, we propose a hybrid pipeline that, starting from plasma glucose data acquired during the Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT), allows us to classify the two types of patients through computational modeling and artificial intelligence.\nThe proposed hybrid pipeline integrates a classical mechanistic model of delayed differential equations (DDE) that describes glucose-insulin dynamics with machine learning (ML) methods. Ad hoc techniques, including structural identifiability analysis, have been employed for refining and evaluating the mathematical model. Additionally, a dedicated pipeline for identifying and optimizing model parameters has been applied to obtain reliable estimates. Robust feature extraction and classifier selection processes were developed to ensure the optimal choice of the best-performing classifier.\nBy leveraging parameters estimated from the mechanistic model alongside easily obtainable patient information (such as glucose levels at 30 and 120 min post-OGTT, glycated hemoglobin (Hb1Ac), body mass index (BMI), and waist circumference), our approach facilitates accurate classification of patients, enabling tailored therapeutic interventions.\nInitial findings, focusing on correctly categorizing patients with BED based on metabolic data, demonstrate promising outcomes. These results suggest significant potential for refinement, including exploration of alternative mechanistic models and machine learning algorithms, to enhance classification accuracy and therapeutic strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Natural toxins, mainly small molecules, are a category of chemical hazards in agri-food systems that pose threats to both public health and food security. Current standard methods for monitoring these toxins, predominantly based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, are costly, labor-intensive, and complex. This study presents the development of a novel microfluidic optical aptasensor for rapid detection of small molecules based on analyte-tuned growth of gold nanoseeds combined with machine learning-enhanced spectrum analysis. We discovered and optimized a previously unreported growth pattern of aptamer-coated nanoparticles in the presence of different concentrations of analyte, enabling the detection of a major mycotoxin in food. The entire analysis was miniaturized on a customized microfluidic platform, allowing for automated spectral acquisition with precise liquid manipulation. A machine learning model, based on random forest with feature engineering, was developed and evaluated for spectrum analysis, significantly enhancing the prediction of mycotoxin concentrations. This approach extended the detection limit determined by the conventional method (\u223c72 ppb with high variation) to a wider range of 10 ppb to 100 ppm with high accuracy (overall mean absolute percentage error of 5.7%). The developed analytical tool provides a promising solution for detecting small molecules and monitoring chemical hazards in agri-food systems and the environment.", 
    "abstract": "Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are the most common types of inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders that share overlapping clinical features and complications. The aim of this study was to identify shared marker genes and mechanistic similarities between PsA and RA.\nWe utilized datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and perform functional enrichment analyses. To identify the marker genes, we applied two machine learning algorithms: the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and the support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE). Subsequently, we assessed the diagnostic capacity of the identified marker genes using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and decision curve analysis (DCA). A transcription factor (TF) network was constructed using data from JASPAR, HumanTFDB, and GTRD. We then employed CIBERSORT to analyze the abundance of immune infiltrates in PsA and RA, assessing the relationship between marker genes and immune cells. Additionally, cellular subpopulations were identified by analyzing single-cell sequencing data from RA, with T cells examined for trajectory and cellular communication using Monocle and CellChat, thereby exploring their linkage to marker genes.\nA total of seven overlapping DEGs were identified between PsA and RA. Gene enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV, Toll-like receptors, and NF-\u03baB signaling pathways. Both machine learning algorithms identified Ribosomal Protein L22-like 1 (RPL22L1) and Lymphocyte Antigen 96 (LY96) as potential diagnostic markers for PsA and RA. These markers were validated using test sets and experimental approaches. Furthermore, GSEA analysis indicated that gap junctions may play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of both conditions. The TF network suggested a potential association between marker genes and core enrichment genes related to gap junctions. The application of CIBERSORT and single-cell RNA sequencing provided a comprehensive understanding of the role of marker genes in immune cell function. Our results indicated that RPL22L1 and LY96 are involved in T cell development and are associated with T cell communication with NK cells and monocytes. Notably, high expression of both RPL22L1 and LY96 was linked to enhanced VEGF signaling in T cells.\nOur study identified RPL22L1 and LY96 as key biomarkers for PsA and RA. Further investigations demonstrated that these two marker genes are closely associated with gap junction function, T cell infiltration, differentiation, and VEGF signaling. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the diagnosis and treatment of PsA and RA.", 
    "abstract": "Without incurring additional computational cost, the Hubbard model can prevalently address the electron self-interaction problems of the local or semilocal exchange-correlation functions within density functional theory. However, determining the value of the Hubbard parameter, ", 
    "abstract": "Huntington Disease (HD) is a type of neurodegenerative disorder which causes problems like psychiatric disturbances, movement problem, weight loss and problem in sleep. It needs to be addressed in earlier stage of human life. Nowadays Deep Learning (DL) based system could help physicians provide second opinion in treating patient's disease. In this work, human Deoxyribo Nucleic Acid (DNA) sequence is analyzed using Deep Neural Network (DNN) algorithm to predict the HD disease. The main objective of this work is to identify whether the human DNA is affected by HD or not. Human DNA sequences are collected from National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and synthetic human DNA data are also constructed for process. Then numerical conversion of human DNA sequence data is done by Chaos Game Representation (CGR) method. After that, numerical values of DNA data are used for feature extraction. Mean, median, standard deviation, entropy, contrast, correlation, energy and homogeneity are extracted. Additionally, the following features such as counts of adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine are extracted from the DNA sequence data itself. The extracted features are used as input to the DNN classifier and other machine learning based classifiers such as NN (Neural Network), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF) and Classification Tree with Forward Pruning (CTWFP). Six performance measures are used such as Accuracy, Sensitivity, Specificity, Precision, F1 score and Mathew Correlation Co-efficient (MCC). The study concludes DNN, NN, SVM, RF achieve 100% accuracy and CTWFP achieves accuracy of 87%.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate estimation of battery state of health is crucial for effective electric vehicle battery management. Here, we propose five health indicators that can be extracted online from real-world electric vehicle operation and develop a machine learning-based method to estimate the battery state of health. The proposed indicators provide physical insights into the energy and power fade of the battery and enable accurate capacity estimation even with partially missing data. Moreover, they can be computed for portions of the charging profile and real-world driving discharging conditions, facilitating real-time battery degradation estimation. The indicators are computed using experimental data from five cells aged under electric vehicle conditions, and a linear regression model is used to estimate the state of health. The results show that models trained with power autocorrelation and energy-based features achieve capacity estimation with maximum absolute percentage error within 1.5% to 2.5%.", 
    "abstract": "Positron emission tomography (PET) utilizes radiotracers like [", 
    "abstract": "Laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI) is an optical technique used to assess blood flow perfusion by modeling changes in speckle intensity, but it is generally limited to qualitative analysis due to difficulties in absolute quantification. Three-dimensional convolutional neural networks (3D CNNs) enhance the quantitative performance of LSCI by excelling at extracting spatiotemporal features from speckle data. However, excessive downsampling techniques can lead to significant information loss. To address this, we propose a hybrid quantum-classical 3D CNN framework that leverages variational quantum algorithms (VQAs) to enhance the performance of classical models. The proposed framework employs variational quantum circuits (VQCs) to replace the 3D global pooling layer, enabling the model to utilize the complete 3D information extracted by the convolutional layers for feature integration, thereby enhancing velocity prediction performance. We perform cross-validation on experimental LSCI speckle data and demonstrate the superiority of the hybrid models over their classical counterparts in terms of prediction accuracy and learning stability. Furthermore, we evaluate the models on an unseen test set and observe that the hybrid models outperform the classical models with up to 14.8% improvement in mean squared error (MSE) and up to 26.1% improvement in mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) evaluation metrics. Finally, our qualitative analysis shows that the hybrid models offer substantial improvements over classical models in predicting blood flow at both low and high velocities. These results indicate that the hybrid models possess more powerful learning and generalization capabilities.", 
    "abstract": "Early identification of cognitive or physical overload is critical in fields where human decision making matters when preventing threats to safety and property. Pilots, drivers, surgeons, and operators of nuclear plants are among those affected by this challenge, as acute stress can impair their cognition. In this context, the significance of paralinguistic automatic speech processing increases for early stress detection. The intensity, intonation, and cadence of an utterance are examples of paralinguistic traits that determine the meaning of a sentence and are often lost in the verbatim transcript. To address this issue, tools are being developed to recognize paralinguistic traits effectively. However, a data bottleneck still exists in the training of paralinguistic speech traits, and the lack of high-quality reference data for the training of artificial systems persists. Regarding this, we present an original empirical dataset collected using the BESST experimental protocol for capturing speech signals under induced stress. With this data, our aim is to promote the development of pre-emptive intervention systems based on stress estimation from speech.", 
    "abstract": "Clinical machine learning (ML) technologies can sometimes be biased and their use could exacerbate health disparities. The extent to which bias is present, the groups who most frequently experience bias, and the mechanism through which bias is introduced in clinical ML applications is not well described. The objective of this study was to examine instances of bias in clinical ML models. We identified the sociodemographic subgroups (using the PROGRESS-Plus framework) that experienced bias and the reported mechanisms of bias introduction METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and Web of Science for all studies that evaluated bias on sociodemographic factors within ML algorithms created for the purpose of facilitating clinical care. The scoping review was conducted according to the JBI guide and reported using the PRISMA extension for scoping reviews.\nWe identified 6448 articles, of which 760 reported on a clinical ML model and 91 (12.0%) completed a bias evaluation and met all inclusion criteria. Most studies evaluated a single sociodemographic factor (n=56, 61.5%). The most frequently evaluated sociodemographic factor was race (n=59, 64.8%), followed by sex/gender (n=41, 45.1%), and age (n=24, 26.4%), with one study (1.1%) evaluating intersectional factors. Of all studies, 74.7% (n=68) reported that bias was present, 18.7% (n=17) reported bias was not present, and 6.6% (n=6) did not state whether bias was present. When present, 87% of studies reported bias against groups with socioeconomic disadvantage.\nMost ML algorithms that were evaluated for bias demonstrated bias on sociodemographic factors. Furthermore, most bias evaluations concentrated on race, sex/gender, and age, while other sociodemographic factors and their intersection were infrequently assessed. Given potential health equity implications, bias assessments should be completed for all clinical ML models.", 
    "abstract": "Correlations between morphology and lifestyle of extant taxa are useful for predicting lifestyles of extinct relatives. Here, we infer the locomotor behaviour of ", 
    "abstract": "Driving under the influence of alcohol (DUIA) is closely associated with alcohol use disorder (AUD). Our previous study on machine learning (ML) algorithms revealed a very high accuracy of decision trees with neuropsychological features in predicting the risk of DUIA despite limited data availability. Thus, this study aimed at comparing six well-known ML algorithms based on electroencephalographic (EEG) signals to differentiate adults with AUD and DUIA (AUD-DD) from those with AUD without DUIA (AUD-NDD) and controls. Fifteen AUD-DD and 10 AUD-NDD participants were recruited from a single tertiary referral center. Fourteen social drinkers without DUIA served as controls. Their EEG signals related to driving conditions were gathered using a VR headset with eight electrodes (F3, F4, Fz, C3, C4, Cz, P3, and P4). Based on the labeled features of EEG asymmetry and theta/beta ratio (TBR), comparisons between different algorithms were conducted. Fz and Cz electrodes exhibited differences in TBR across the three groups (all p\u00a0<\u00a00.02), while there were no significant differences between AUD-DD individuals and social drinkers. In contrast, asymmetries of between-group differences were not observed (all p\u00a0>\u00a00.09). K-nearest neighbors (KNN) with TBR showed the highest accuracy (83\u00a0%) in distinguishing AUD-DD individuals from controls, while logistic regression (LR), support vector machines (SVM), and naive Bayes (NB) with EEG asymmetric features demonstrated high accuracy in identifying DUIA (all 80\u00a0%) in AUD adults. LR, SVM, and NB with asymmetry may be employed in predicting DUIA among AUD adults, while KNN with TBR may be used for identifying DUIA in the general population.", 
    "abstract": "Existing prediction methods for academic majors based on personality traits have notable gaps, including limited model complexity and generalizability.The current study aimed to utilize advanced Machine Learning (ML) algorithms with smoothing functions to predict academic majors completed based on personality subscales.\nWe used reports from 59,413 individuals to perform the current study. All advanced algorithms implemented in this article were based on R software (version 4.1.3, R Core Team, 2021). All model parameters were optimized based on resampling and cross-validation (CV). In addition, pseudo-R\nThe results indicated that advanced ML models' performance on training and test data was superior to logistic regression. Pseudo-R\nThe potential of advanced methods to enhance the accuracy and validity of predictions is a promising development in our field. Their performance, particularly in handling large data sets with complex patterns, is a reason for optimism about the future of research in this area.", 
    "abstract": "The fourth industrial revolution will heavily rely on machine learning (ML). The rationale is that these strategies make various business operations in many sectors easier. ML modeling is the discovery of hidden patterns between multiple process parameters and accurately predicting the test values. ML has provided a wide range of applications in Chemical Engineering. One major application of ML can be found in the microwave-assisted pyrolysis (MAP) of lignocellulose bio-waste. MAP is an energy-efficient technology to obtain high-saturated hydrogen-rich liquid fuels. The main focus of this review study is understanding the utilization of various types of ML algorithms, including supervised and unsupervised techniques in microwave-assisted heating techniques for diverse biomass feedstocks, including waste materials like used tea powder, wood blocks, kraft lignin, and others. In addition to developing effective ML-based models, alternative traditional modeling approaches are also explored. In addition to various thermochemical conversion processes for biomass, MAP is also briefly reviewed with several case studies from the literature. The conventional modeling methodology for biomass pyrolysis with microwave heating is also discussed for comparison with ML-based modeling methodologies.", 
    "abstract": "Assessing groundwater quality is essential for achieving sustainable development goals worldwide. However, it is challenging to conduct hydrochemical analysis and water quality evaluation by traditional methods. To fill this gap, this study analyzed the hydrochemical processes, drinking and irrigation water quality, and associated health risks of 93 groundwater samples from the Sichuan Basin in SW China using advanced unsupervised machine learning, the Combined-Weights Water Quality index, and Monte-Carlo simulations. Groundwater samples were categorized into three types using the self-organizing map with the K-means method: Cluster-1 was Ca-HCO", 
    "abstract": "The development of cascading hydropower dams in river basins has significantly altered natural flow regimes in recent decades. This study investigates hydrological alterations caused by cascading hydropower dams in the Lancang-Mekong River Basin (LMRB) by integrating the Indicators of Hydrologic Alteration (IHA) method with non-regulated flow predicted using the Random Forest (RF) machine learning (ML) technique. The analysis focuses on four hydrological stations: Chiang Saen, Mukdahan, Pakse, and Stung Treng across pre-impact (1961-1991), transition (1992-2008), and post-impact (2009-2021) periods. RF models predict streamflow altered primarily by human activities, particularly hydropower development using spatially averaged daily precipitation, cumulative precipitation, and temperature data. This approach isolates human-induced impacts, unlike previous studies that combined climate change and human activities. Results indicate that post-impact alterations were most pronounced at Chiang Saen (77.3%) and decreased downstream. Alterations increased from the transition to post-impact periods by 31.5%, 22.2%, 26.5%, and 17.6% at Chiang Saen, Mukdahan, Pakse, and Stung Treng, respectively. The median monthly flow, annual extreme conditions, and rate and frequency of flow change groups in the IHA were highly altered compared to natural conditions in the post-impact period. Human activities contributed over 50% of streamflow changes (2017-2021). This approach provides a more precise assessment of dam-induced hydrological alterations, aiding hydropower management by isolating human impacts and offering high-resolution predictions.", 
    "abstract": "What predicts cross-country differences in the recovery of socioeconomic activity from the COVID-19 pandemic? To answer this question, we examined how quickly countries' socioeconomic activity bounced back to normalcy from disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic based on residents' attitudes, values, and beliefs as measured in the World Values Survey. We trained nine preregistered machine learning models to predict the rate at which various socioeconomic metrics (e.g., public transportation occupancy, cinema attendance) recovered from their COVID-19 lows based on the World Values Survey. All models had high predictive accuracy when presented with out-of-sample data (rs \u2265 .83). Feature importance analyses identified five psychological predictors that most strongly predicted socioeconomic recovery from COVID-19: religiosity, liberal social attitudes, the value of independence, obedience to authority, and the Protestant work ethic. Although past research has established the role of religiosity, liberalism, and independence in predicting resilience, it has not yet considered obedience to authority or the Protestant work ethic. Thus, the current research suggests new directions for future work on resilience that may not be apparent from either a deductive or an inductive approach. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).", 
    "abstract": "Geometry optimization is an important tool used for computational simulations in the fields of chemistry, physics, and material science. Developing more efficient and reliable algorithms to reduce the number of force evaluations would lead to accelerated computational modeling and materials discovery. Here, we present a delta method-based neural network-density functional theory (DFT) hybrid optimizer to improve the computational efficiency of geometry optimization. Compared to previous active learning approaches, our algorithm adds two key features: a modified delta method incorporating force information to enhance efficiency in uncertainty estimation, and a quasi-Newton approach based upon a Hessian matrix calculated from the neural network; the later improving stability of optimization near critical points. We benchmarked our optimizer against commonly used optimization algorithms using systems including bulk metal, metal surface, metal hydride, and an oxide cluster. The results demonstrate that our optimizer effectively reduces the number of DFT force calls by 2-3 times in all test systems.", 
    "abstract": "Cell culture assays play a vital role in various fields of biology. Conventional assay techniques like immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and flow cytometry offer valuable insights into cell phenotype and behavior. However, each of these techniques requires labeling or staining, and this is a major drawback, specifically in applications that require compact and integrated analytical devices. To address this shortcoming, CMOS capacitance sensors capable of conducting label-free cell culture assays have been proposed. In this paper, we present a computational framework for further augmenting the capabilities of these capacitance sensors. In our framework, identification and classification of mitosis and migration are achieved by leveraging observations from measured capacitance time series data. Specifically, we engineered two time series features that enable discriminating cell behaviors at the single-cell level. Our feature representation achieves an area under curve (AUC) of 0.719 in the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Additionally, we show that our feature representation technique is applicable across arbitrary experiments, as validated by a leave-one-run-out test yielding an F-1 score of 0.803 and a G-Mean of 0.647.", 
    "abstract": "Asthma poses a major threat to human health. The aim of this study was to identify genetic markers of severe asthma and analyze the relationship between key genes and immune infiltration. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were first screened by downloading the training set GSE69683 and validation set GSE137268 from the GEO dataset. SVM-RFE analysis and the LASSO regression model were used to screen key genes, and CIBERSORT was used to assess immune infiltration in the samples. A total of 20 DEGs were identified in this study, mainly enriched for lymph node-like receptors, b-cell receptors, and neutrophil extracellular trap pathway. Comparative validation set GSE137268 identified thioredoxin (TXN) and coagulation factor V (F5) were identified as diagnostic markers of severe asthma. CIBERSORT analysis revealed that TXN and F5 are associated with multiple immune cell infiltrates. In addition, we identified miRNA and TF at the transcriptional level that may regulate F5 and TXN, and found that several commonly used drugs may exert therapeutic effects by targeting F5 and TXN. Taken together, TXN and F5 may be key genes in the development of severe asthma and are associated with immune infiltration. Our study can help to better understand the pathogenesis of asthma and provide new ideas for clinical treatment.", 
    "abstract": "BCC and FCC metals have different glass-forming abilities (GFA) and exhibit different characteristics during the glass transition. However, the structural origin of their different GFAs is still not clear. Here, we explored the structures of eight monatomic metallic glasses by combining molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and machine learning (ML). Our findings reveal that, despite their common long-range disordered atomic structure, metallic glasses can be further classified into two distinct categories indicating an underlying structural order within the disorder. Using machine learning, we found that BCC liquids can sample more diverse glass states than FCC liquids. Furthermore, glasses formed from BCC metals (GFFBs) exhibit a higher degree of disorder than glasses formed from FCC metals (GFFFs). These findings highlight the inherent differences between GFFFs and GFFBs, which help explain the different glass-forming abilities of FCC and BCC metals. Additionally, our results demonstrate the promising potential of computer vision and ML methods in exploring material structures.\nClassical molecular dynamics simulations were employed to generate configurations of GFFBs and GFFFs, and the simulations were performed using the LAMMPS code. Inter-atomic interactions were described using a classical embedded atom model (EAM) potential. The initial configuration of the model consists of 32,000 atoms in a three-dimensional (3D) cubic box with periodic boundary conditions applied in all three directions. For machine learning, we utilized an unsupervised machine learning method along with MobileNetV2 for classifying glass structures. Image entropy and image distances were used to measure the structural differences of the metallic glasses.", 
    "abstract": "Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) plays a critical role in the development of various cancers. In this study, the dataset of 1810 collected inhibitors were divided into a training set and a test set by the self-organizing map (SOM) and random method, respectively. We developed 32 classification models using Support Vector Machines (SVM), Decision Trees (DT), Random Forests (RF), and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) to distinguish between highly and weakly active ALK inhibitors, with the inhibitors represented by MACCS and ECFP4 fingerprints. Model 7D which was built by the RF algorithm using training set 1/test set 1 divided by the SOM method, provided the best performance with a prediction accuracy of 90.97% and a Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) value of 0.79 on the test set. We clustered the 1810 inhibitors into 10 subsets by K-Means algorithm to find out the structural characteristics of highly active ALK inhibitors. The main scaffolds of highly active ALK inhibitors were also analyzed based on ECFP4 fingerprints. It was found that some substructures have a significant effect on high activity, such as 2,4-diarylaminopyrimidine analogues, pyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazin, indolo[2,3-b]quinoline-11-one, benzo[d]imidazol and pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridine. In addition, the subsets were summarized into several clusters, among which four clusters showed a significant relationship with ALK inhibitory activity. Finally, Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) was also used to explain the influence of modeling features on model prediction results. The SHAP results indicated that our models can well reflect the structural features of ALK inhibitors.", 
    "abstract": "Advanced copper and copper alloys, as significant engineering structural materials, have recently been extensively used in energy, electron, transportation, and aviation domains. Higher requirements urge the emergence of high-performance copper alloys. However, the traditional trial-and-error experimental observations and computational simulation research used to design and develop novel materials are time-consuming and costly. With the accumulation of material research and rapid development of computational ability, the thorough application of material genome engineering has sped up the development of novel materials and facilitates the process of systematic engineering application.\nThis review summarizes the benefits of data-driven machine learning techniques and the state of the art of machine learning research in the area of copper alloys. It also displays the widely used computational simulation approaches (e.g., the first-principles calculation, molecular dynamics simulation, phase-field simulations, and finite element analysis) and their combined applications in material design and property prediction. Finally, the limitations of machine learning research methods are outlined, and future development directions are proposed.", 
    "abstract": "Over the years, several studies have aimed to elucidate why certain molecules show more enhanced nonlinear optical (NLO) properties than others. This knowledge is particularly valuable in the design of new NLO switches, where the ON and OFF states of the switch display markedly different NLO behaviors. In the literature, orbital contributions, aromaticity, planarity, and intramolecular charge transfer have been put forward as key factors in this regard. Based on our previous work on functionalized hexaphyrin-based redox switches, we aim at identifying through explainable machine learning the driving forces of the first hyperpolarizability related to the hyper-Rayleigh scattering (", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to (1) review machine learning (ML)-based models for early infection diagnostic and prognosis prediction in post-acute care (PAC) settings, (2) identify key risk predictors influencing infection-related outcomes, and (3) examine the quality and limitations of these models.\nPubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, IEEE Xplore, CINAHL, and ACM digital library were searched in February 2024. Eligible studies leveraged PAC data to develop and evaluate ML models for infection-related risks. Data extraction followed the CHARMS checklist. Quality appraisal followed the PROBAST tool. Data synthesis was guided by the socio-ecological conceptual framework.\nThirteen studies were included, mainly focusing on respiratory infections and nursing homes. Most used regression models with structured electronic health record data. Since 2020, there has been a shift toward advanced ML algorithms and multimodal data, biosensors, and clinical notes being significant sources of unstructured data. Despite these advances, there is insufficient evidence to support performance improvements over traditional models. Individual-level risk predictors, like impaired cognition, declined function, and tachycardia, were commonly used, while contextual-level predictors were barely utilized, consequently limiting model fairness. Major sources of bias included lack of external validation, inadequate model calibration, and insufficient consideration of data complexity.\nDespite the growth of advanced modeling approaches in infection-related models in PAC settings, evidence supporting their superiority remains limited. Future research should leverage a socio-ecological lens for predictor selection and model construction, exploring optimal data modalities and ML model usage in PAC, while ensuring rigorous methodologies and fairness considerations.", 
    "abstract": "While the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and other epidemics continue, individuals with chronic diseases and those over the age of 60 are most affected by the psychological effects. This research is the first and most crucial study comparing the quality of life, physical activities, fear of disease and virus evaluation, and social phobia in chronic patients and healthy individuals, and modeling the classification of social phobia using the machine learning approach.\nThe quantitative study used STROBE guidelines for the correlational and cross-sectional design. The research questionnaire was designed in four parts: a personal information form, the Liebowitz Social Phobia Scale, the Fear of Illness and Virus Evaluation Scale, and the Quality of Life Scale (EUROHIS-WHOQOL-8). Different algorithms were examined using the machine learning approach to classify social phobia. More participants were reached than the calculated sample size (n = 1068) using simple random sampling, and the final sample size was 1235.\nPatients with chronic diseases had lower physical activity levels and quality of life scores. Patients with chronic diseases (n=728) had higher Fear of Illness and Virus Evaluation Scale-35 scores and Liebowitz Social Phobia Scale-24 scores compared to healthy participants (n=507) and lower physical activity levels (3.901 \u00b1 3.035) and quality of life scores (29.016 \u00b1 4.782). Two algorithms (K-nearest neighbors and support vector machine algorithm) provided the best performance. In support vector machine algorithm, Fear of Illness and Virus Evaluation Scale-35 was the most critical feature in classifying social phobia. Physical activity level and Liebowitz Social Phobia Scale seem to be positively related in k-nearest neighbors.\nThe model is essential for identifying and understanding social phobia factors in patients with chronic diseases. Support vector machine algorithm is an algorithm that is preferred for identifying patients at risk of fear and will facilitate follow-up when integrated into smartphone applications.", 
    "abstract": "Brain neural signal at different frequency bands relates to different functions. However, the frequency-specific properties of spontaneous brain activity in tension-type headache (TTH)-the most rampant primary headache-remain largely unknown. We investigated the local neural activity of 33 TTH patients and 31 healthy controls (HCs) in the conventional frequency band and two sub-frequency bands (slow-4 and slow-5 frequency band), employing fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF), percent amplitude fluctuations (PerAF) and Wavelet-ALFF analytic methods. Using age as covariate, we performed two sample t-test to compare the between-group differences of each metrics in each frequency band. Support vector machine (SVM) was conducted to classify TTH patients and HCs on the basis of altered spontaneous brain activities. TTH patients showed lower fALFF values in the left cerebellar lobule X, left parahippocampal gyrus, and right supplementary motor area in slow-5 band. TTH patients showed lower PerAF in the left fusiform and cerebellar regions in three bands. Altered Wavelet-ALFF values in the right thalamus, left anterior cingulum gyrus, superior parietal gyrus and middle and parietal frontal regions in three frequency bands were detected. And the SVM classifier obtained an overall accuracy of 77.38%, 82.38%, and 95% based on fALFF, PerAF, and Wavelet ALFF values, respectively. TTH patients exhibited abnormal neural activity in various brain regions. The abnormal brain activities serve as powerful features for distinguishing TTH patients. This preliminary exploration provides a novel insight into the underlying mechanism of TTH.", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning (ML) methods are promising and scalable alternatives for propensity score (PS) estimation, but their comparative performance in disease risk score (DRS) estimation remains unexplored.\nWe used real-world data comparing antihypertensive users to non-users with 69 negative control outcomes, and plasmode simulations to study the performance of ML methods in PS and DRS estimation. We conducted a cohort study using UK primary care records. Further, we conducted a plasmode simulation with synthetic treatment and outcome mimicking empirical data distributions. We compared four PS and DRS estimation methods: 1. Reference: Logistic regression including clinically chosen confounders. 2. Logistic regression with L1 regularisation (LASSO). 3. Multi-layer perceptron (MLP). 4. Extreme Gradient Boosting (XgBoost). Covariate balance, coverage of the null effect of negative control outcomes (real-world data) and bias based on the absolute difference between observed and true effects (for plasmode) were estimated. 632,201 antihypertensive users and nonusers were included.\nML methods outperformed the reference method for PS estimation in some scenarios, both in terms of covariate balance and coverage/bias. Specifically, XgBoost achieved the best performance. DRS-based methods performed worse than PS in all tested scenarios.\nWe found that ML methods could be reliable alternatives for PS estimation. ML-based DRS methods performed worse than PS ones, likely given the rarity of outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "Materials synthesis optimization is constrained by serial feedback processes that rely on manual tools and intuition across multiple siloed modes of characterization. We automate and generalize feature extraction of reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) data with machine learning to establish quantitatively predictive relationships in small sets (\u223c10) of expert-labeled data, saving significant time on subsequently grown samples. These predictive relationships are evaluated in a representative material system (W", 
    "abstract": "Children with special educational needs (SEN) are a diverse group facing numerous challenges related to well-being and mental health. Understanding the predictors of well-being in this population requires the incorporation of diverse factors along with approaches that can uncover complexity in how these factors work together to influence well-being. We longitudinally predicted subjective well-being in a group of children with diverse special educational needs (N\u2009=\u2009499; M\u2009=\u20098.4\u2009\u00b1\u20090.9\u00a0years). Thirty-two variables - ranging from demographics to various categories of life experiences - were used as predictors for both nonlinear machine learning and classical linear classifiers. Nonlinear machine learning classifiers exhibited much performance in predicting subjective well-being (F1 score\u2009=\u20090.72 to 0.84) compared to traditional linear classifiers. Overall, across all children, prior subjective well-being, numeracy, literacy skills, and interpersonal dimensions played important roles. However, clustering further identified four distinct clusters sharing important predictors: a 'socializer' cluster dominated by interpersonal functioning predictors, an 'analyzer' cluster emphasizing academic skills predictors, and two clusters with more diverse sets of important predictors. Our research highlights the multiple pathways toward well-being in children with SEN as uncovered by machine learning, with implications for understanding and supporting their well-being.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The acoustic repertoires of long-finned pilot whales (", 
    "abstract": "Oxidative stress plays a significant role in aging and cancer, yet there is currently a lack of research utilizing machine learning models to examine the relationship between oxidative stress and prognosis in elderly non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.\nThis study included elderly NSCLC patients who underwent radical lung cancer resection from January 2012 to April 2018, exploring the relationship between Oxidative Stress Score (OSS) and prognosis. Machine learning techniques, including Decision Trees (DT), Random Forest (RF), and Support Vector Machine (SVM), were employed to develop predictive models for 5-year overall survival (OS).\nThe datasets consisted of 1647 patients in the training set, 705 in the internal validation set, and 516 in the external validation set. An OSS was formulated from six systemic oxidative stress biomarkers, such as albumin, total bilirubin, and blood urea nitrogen, among others. Boruta variable importance analysis identified low OSS as a key indicator of poor prognosis. The OSS was subsequently integrated into the DT, RF, and SVM models for training. These models, optimized through hyperparameter tuning on the training set, were then evaluated on the internal and external validation sets. The RF model demonstrated the highest predictive performance, with an Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (AUC) of 0.794 in the internal validation set, compared to AUCs of 0.711 and 0.760 for the DT and SVM models, respectively. Similarly, in the external validation set, the RF model achieved an AUC of 0.784, outperforming the DT and SVM models, which had AUCs of 0.699 and 0.730, respectively. Calibration plots confirmed the RF model's superior calibration, followed by the SVM model, with the DT model performing the poorest.\nThe OSS-based clinical prediction model, constructed using machine learning methodologies, effectively predicts the prognosis of elderly NSCLC patients post-radical surgery.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the composition of bone tissue at the submicron level is crucial to elucidate factors contributing to bone disease and fragility. Here, we introduce a novel approach utilizing optical photothermal infrared (O-PTIR) spectroscopy and imaging coupled with machine learning analysis to assess bone tissue composition at 500\u00a0nm spatial resolution. This approach was used to evaluate thick bone samples embedded in typical poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) blocks, eliminating the need for cumbersome thin sectioning. We demonstrate the utility of O-PTIR imaging to assess the distribution of bone tissue mineral and protein, as well as to explore the structure-composition relationship surrounding microporosity at a spatial resolution unattainable by conventional infrared imaging modalities. Using bone samples from wildtype (WT) mice and from a mouse model of osteogenesis imperfecta (OIM), we further showcase the application of O-PTIR spectroscopy to quantify mineral content, crystallinity, and carbonate content in spatially defined regions across the cortical bone. Notably, we show that machine learning analysis using support vector machine (SVM) was successful in identifying bone phenotypes (typical in WT, fragile in OIM) based on input of spectral data, with over 86\u00a0% of samples correctly identified when using the collagen spectral range. Our findings highlight the potential of O-PTIR spectroscopy and imaging as valuable tools for exploring bone submicron composition.", 
    "abstract": "The prognostic landscape of stage III Lung Adenosquamous Carcinoma (ASC) following primary tumor resection remains underexplored. A thoughtfully developed prognostic model has the potential to guide clinicians in patient counseling and the formulation of effective therapeutic strategies.\nUtilizing data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database spanning 2000 to 2018, this study identified independent prognostic factors influencing Overall Survival (OS) in ASC using Boruta analysis. Employing Gradient Boosting, Random Forest, and Neural Network algorithms, predictive models were constructed. Model performance was assessed through key metrics, including Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (AUC), calibration plot, Brier score, and Decision Curve Analysis (DCA).\nAmong 241 eligible patients, seven clinical parameters-age, sex, primary tumor size, N stage, primary tumor site, chemotherapy, and systemic therapy-were identified as significant predictors of OS. Advanced age, male gender, larger tumor size, absence of chemotherapy, and lack of systemic therapy were associated with poorer survival. The Random Forest model outperformed others, achieving 3- and 5-year AUCs of 0.80/0.79 (training) and 0.74/0.65 (validation). It also demonstrated better calibration, lower Brier scores (training: 0.189/0.171; validation: 0.207/0.199), and more favorable DCA. SHAP values enhanced model interpretability by highlighting the impact of each parameter on survival predictions. To facilitate clinical application, the Random Forest model was deployed on a web-based server for accessible prognostic assessments.\nThis study presents a robust machine learning model and a web-based tool that assist healthcare practitioners in personalized clinical decision-making and treatment optimization for ASC patients following primary tumor resection.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation of misfolded amyloid beta protein, leading to the formation of amyloid plaques and the aggregation of tau protein into neurofibrillary tangles within the cerebral cortex. The role of carbohydrates, particularly apolipoprotein E (ApoE), is pivotal in AD pathogenesis due to its involvement in lipid and cholesterol metabolism, and its status as a genetic predisposition factor for the disease. Despite its significance, the mechanistic contributions of Lipid Metabolism-related Genes (LMGs) to AD remain inadequately elucidated. This research endeavor seeks to bridge this gap by pinpointing biomarkers indicative of early-stage AD, with an emphasis on those linked to immune cell infiltration. To this end, advanced machine-learning algorithms and data derived from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database have been employed to facilitate the identification of these biomarkers.\nDifferentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparing gene expression profiles between healthy individuals and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, using data from two Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets: GSE5281 and GSE138260. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted to elucidate the biological relevance of the DEGs. To ensure the reliability of the results, samples were randomly divided into training and validation sets. The analysis focused on lipid metabolism-related DEGs (LMDEGs) to explore potential biomarkers for AD. Machine learning algorithms, including Support Vector Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE) and the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression model, were applied to identify a key gene biomarker. Additionally, immune cell infiltration and its relationship with the gene biomarker were assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. The Integrated Traditional Chinese Medicine (ITCM) database was also referenced to identify Chinese medicines related to lipid metabolism and their possible connection to AD. This comprehensive strategy aims to integrate modern computational methods with traditional medicine to deepen our understanding of AD and its underlying mechanisms.\nThe study identified 137 genes from a pool of 751 lipid metabolism-related genes (LMGs) significantly associated with autophagy and immune response mechanisms. Through the application of LASSO and SVM-RFE machine-learning techniques, four genes-choline acetyl transferase (CHAT), member RAS oncogene family (RAB4A), acyl-CoA binding domain-containing protein 6 (ACBD6), and alpha-galactosidase A (GLA)-emerged as potential biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). These genes demonstrated strong therapeutic potential due to their involvement in critical biological pathways. Notably, nine Chinese medicine compounds were identified to target these marker genes, offering a novel treatment approach for AD. Further, ceRNA network analysis revealed complex regulatory interactions involving these genes, underscoring their importance in AD pathology. CIBERSORT analysis highlighted a potential link between changes in the immune microenvironment and CHAT expression levels in AD patients, providing new insights into the immunological dimensions of the disease.\nThe discovery of these gene markers offers substantial promise for the diagnosis and understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, further investigation is necessary to validate their clinical utility. This study illuminates the role of Lipid Metabolism-related Genes (LMGs) in AD pathogenesis, offering potential targets for therapeutic intervention. It enhances our grasp of AD's complex mechanisms and paves the way for future research aimed at refining diagnostic and treatment strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Memory decline is the earliest symptom of various neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, accurately the prediction and identification of risk factors leading up to memory decline has remained limited.\nThe objective of this study is to create and verify a machine learning model that can accurately predict risk factors for memory decline among US adults.\nA total of 9971 individuals were enrolled from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2015-2016 database. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) was used to screen for characteristic predictors. Five machine learning (ML) algorithms: including Logistic Regression, ExtraTrees classifier, Bagging classifier, eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Random Forest (RF) were employed. The performance of each model was evaluated by confusion matrix, area under curve (AUC), accuracy, precision, specificity, Recall and F1 scores.\nThe ultimate sample comprised 4525 subjects, of whom 7.7\u00a0% (N\u00a0=\u00a0347) exhibited memory deterioration. The ExtraTrees classifier model and the XGBoost model demonstrated superior prediction performance and clinical value compared to other independent machine learning models, based on the AUC value of 0.915 and 0.911. Additionally, they consistently demonstrated accurate predicting ability for memory decline in the external datasets, with an AUC of 0.851 and 0.843, respectively.\nThe ExtraTrees classifier and the XGBoost models were the two outperformed models in predicting memory decline. Nevertheless, it is necessary to conduct future investigations to confirm the accuracy of our findings.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we aimed to investigate disparities in the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) between primary and metastatic malignant melanoma (MM) using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and to identify metastasis-related T cell marker genes (MRTMGs) for predicting patient survival using machine learning techniques. We identified 6 distinct T cell clusters in 10\u00d7scRNA-seq data utilizing the Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP) algorithm. Four machine learning algorithms highlighted SRGN, PMEL, GPR143, EIF4A2, and DSP as pivotal MRTMGs, forming the foundation of the MRTMGs signature. A high MRTMGs signature was found to be correlated with poorer overall survival (OS) and suppression of antitumor immunity in MM patients. We developed a nomogram that combines the MRTMGs signature with the T stage and N stage, which accurately predicts 1-year, 3-year, and 5-year OS probabilities. Furthermore, in an immunotherapy cohort, a high MRTMG signature was associated with an unfavorable response to anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1) therapy. In conclusion, primary and metastatic MM display distinct TME landscapes with different T cell subsets playing crucial roles in metastasis. The MRTMGs signature, established through machine learning, holds potential as a valuable biomarker for predicting the survival of MM patients and their response to anti-PD-1 therapy.", 
    "abstract": "The study aimed to compare the diagnostic efficacy of the machine learning models with expert subjective assessment (SA) in assessing the malignancy risk of ovarian tumors using transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS).\nThe retrospective single-center diagnostic study included 1555 consecutive patients from January 2019 to May 2021. Using this dataset, Residual Network(ResNet), Densely Connected Convolutional Network(DenseNet), Vision Transformer(ViT), and Swin Transformer models were established and evaluated separately or combined with Cancer antigen 125 (CA 125). The diagnostic performance was then compared with SA.\nOf the 1555 patients, 76.9% were benign, while 23.1% were malignant (including borderline). When differentiating the malignant from ovarian tumors, the SA had an AUC of 0.97 (95% CI, 0.93-0.99), sensitivity of 87.2%, and specificity of 98.4%. Except for Vision Transformer, other machine learning models had diagnostic performance comparable to that of the expert. The DenseNet model had an AUC of 0.91 (95% CI, 0.86-0.95), sensitivity of 84.6%, and specificity of 95.1%. The ResNet50 model had an AUC of 0.91 (0.85-0.95). The Swin Transformer model had an AUC of 0.92 (0.87-0.96), sensitivity of 87.2%, and specificity of 94.3%. There was a statistically significant difference between the Vision Transformer and SA, and between the Vision Transformer and Swin Transformer models (AUC: 0.87 vs. 0.97, P\u2009=\u20090.01; AUC: 0.87 vs. 0.92, P\u2009=\u20090.04). Adding CA125 did not improve the diagnostic performance of the models in distinguishing benign and malignant ovarian tumors.\nThe deep learning model of TVUS can be used in ovarian cancer evaluation, and its diagnostic performance is comparable to that of expert assessment.", 
    "abstract": "Crohn's disease is a severe chronic and relapsing inflammatory bowel disease. Although contrast-enhanced computed tomography enterography is commonly used to evaluate crohn's disease, its imaging findings are often nonspecific and can overlap with other bowel diseases. Recent studies have explored the application of radiomics-based machine learning algorithms to aid in the diagnosis of medical images. This study aims to develop a non-invasive method for detecting bowel lesions associated with Crohn's disease using CT enterography radiomics and machine learning algorithms.\nA total of 139 patients with pathologically confirmed Crohn's disease were retrospectively enrolled in this study. Radiomics features were extracted from both arterial- and venous-phase CT enterography images, representing both bowel lesions with Crohn's disease and segments of normal bowel. A machine learning classification system was constructed by combining six selected radiomics features with eight classification algorithms. The models were trained using leave-one-out cross-validation and evaluated for accuracy.\nThe classification model demonstrated robust performance and high accuracy, with an area under the curve of 0.938 and 0.961 for the arterial- and venous-phase images, respectively. The model achieved an accuracy of 0.938 for arterial-phase images and 0.961 for venous-phase images.\nThis study successfully identified a radiomics machine learning method that effectively differentiates Crohn's disease bowel lesions from normal bowel segments. Further studies with larger sample sizes and external cohorts are needed to validate these findings.", 
    "abstract": "Post-stroke dementia (PSD), a common complication, diminishes rehabilitation efficacy and affects disease prognosis in stroke patients. Many factors may be related to PSD, including demographic, comorbidities, and examination characteristics. However, most existing methods are qualitative evaluations of independent factors, which ignore the interaction amongst various factors. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore the applicability of machine learning (ML) methods for predicting PSD.\n9 acceptable features were screened out by the Spearman correlation analysis and Boruta algorithm. We developed and evaluated 8 ML models: logistic regression, elastic net, k-nearest neighbors, decision tree, extreme gradient boosting, support vector machine, random forest, and multilayer perceptron.\nA total of 539 stroke patients were included in this study. Among the 8 models used to predict PSD, extreme gradient boosting and random forest showed the highest area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC), with values of 0.7287 and 0.7285, respectively. The most important features for predicting PSD included age, high sensitivity C-reactive protein, stroke side and location, and the occurrence of cerebral hemorrhage.\nOur findings suggest that ML models, especially extreme gradient boosting, can best predict the risk of PSD.", 
    "abstract": "Diabetic retinopathy (DR), a prevalent complication in patients with type 2 diabetes, has attracted increasing attention. Recent studies have explored a plausible association between retinopathy and significant liver fibrosis. The aim of this investigation was to develop a sophisticated machine learning (ML) model, leveraging comprehensive clinical datasets, to forecast the likelihood of significant liver fibrosis in patients with retinopathy and to interpret the ML model by applying the SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) method.\nThis inquiry was based on data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2008 cohort. Utilizing the Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4), liver fibrosis was stratified across a spectrum of grades (F0-F4). The severity of retinopathy was determined using retinal imaging and segmented into four discrete gradations. A ten-fold cross-validation approach was used to gauge the propensity towards liver fibrosis. Eight ML methodologies were used: Extreme Gradient Boosting, Random Forest, multilayer perceptron, Support Vector Machines, Logistic Regression (LR), Plain Bayes, Decision Tree, and k-nearest neighbors. The efficacy of these models was gauged using metrics, such as the area under the curve (AUC). The SHAP method was deployed to unravel the intricacies of feature importance and explicate the inner workings of the ML model.\nThe analysis included 5,364 participants, of whom 2,116 (39.45%) exhibited notable liver fibrosis. Following random allocation, 3,754 individuals were assigned to the training set and 1,610 were allocated to the validation cohort. Nine variables were curated for integration into the ML model. Among the eight ML models scrutinized, the LR model attained zenith in both AUC (0.867, 95% CI: 0.855-0.878) and F1 score (0.749, 95% CI: 0.732-0.767). In internal validation, this model sustained its superiority, with an AUC of 0.850 and an F1 score of 0.736, surpassing all other ML models. The SHAP methodology unveils the foremost factors through importance ranking.\nSophisticated ML models were crafted using clinical data to discern the propensity for significant liver fibrosis in patients with retinopathy and to intervene early.\nImproved early detection of liver fibrosis risk in retinopathy patients enhances clinical intervention outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "The objective of the study is to assess the clinical value of machine learning radiomics based on contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) images in preoperative prediction of perineural invasion (PNI) status in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). A total of 143 patients with PDAC were enrolled in this retrospective study (training group, n\u2009=\u2009100; test group, n\u2009=\u200943). Radiomics features were extracted from CECT images and selected by the Mann-Whitney U-test, Pearson correlation coefficient, and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO). The logistic regression (LR), support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), and decision tree (DT) algorithms were trained to build radiomics models by radiomic features. Multivariate logistic regression was employed to identify independent predictors and establish clinical models. A combined model was constructed by integrating clinical and radiomics features. Model performances were assessed by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROCs) and decision curve analyses (DCAs). A total of 788 radiomics features were extracted from CECT images, of which 14 were identified as significant through the three-step selection process. Among the machine learning models, the SVM radiomics model exhibited the highest predictive performance in the test group, achieving an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.831, accuracy of 0.698, sensitivity of 0.677, and specificity of 0.750. After logistic regression screening, the clinical model was established using carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA199) levels as one independent predictor. In the test group, the clinical model demonstrated an AUC of 0.644, accuracy of 0.744, sensitivity of 0.871, and specificity of 0.417. The combined model showed improved performance compared to both the clinical and radiomics models in the test group, with an AUC of 0.844, accuracy of 0.767, sensitivity of 0.806, and specificity of 0.667. Subsequently, DCA of the combined model indicated optimal clinical value for predicting PNI status. Machine learning radiomics models can accurately predict PNI status in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. The combined model, which incorporates clinical and radiomics features, enhances preoperative diagnostic performance and aids in the selection of treatment methods.", 
    "abstract": "Currently, the growing interest in radiomics within the clinical practice has prompted some researchers to differentiate the rupture status of intracranial aneurysm (IA) by developing radiomics-based machine learning models. However, systematic evidence supporting its performance remains scarce. The purpose of this meta-analysis and systematic review is to assess the diagnostic performance of radiomics-based machine learning for the early detection of IA rupture and to offer evidence-based recommendations for the application of radiomics in this area.\u00a0PubMed, Cochrane, Embase, and Web of Science databases were searched systematically up to March 2, 2024. The Radiomics Quality Score (RQS) was employed to assess the risk of bias in all included primary studies. We separately discussed the diagnostic or predictive performance of machine learning for IA rupture status based on task type (diagnosis or prediction).\u00a0\u00a0We finally included 15 original studies covering 9,111 IA cases. In the validation cohort, radiomics demonstrated a sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio, diagnostic odds ratio, as well as SROC curve of 0.84 (95% CI: 0.76-0.90), 0.82 (95% CI: 0.77-0.86), 4.7 (95% CI: 3.7-5.8), 0.19 (95% CI: 0.13-0.29), and 24 (95% CI: 15-40), respectively, for the diagnostic task of aneurysm rupture status. Only 2 studies (3 models) addressed predictive tasks, with sensitivity and specificity ranging from 0.77 to 0.89 and from 0.69 to 0.87, respectively.\u00a0Radiomics-based machine learning exhibits promising accuracy for early identification of IA rupture status, whereas evidence for its predictive capability is limited. Further research is needed to validate predictive models and provide insights for developing specialized strategies to prevent aneurysm rupture.", 
    "abstract": "Medulloblastoma (MB) is the pediatric population's most frequent malignant intracranial lesions. Prognostication plays a crucial role in optimizing treatment strategy in the MB setting. Several studies have developed ML-based models to predict survival outcomes in individuals with MB. In this systematic review and meta-analysis study, we aimed to evaluate the role of ML-based models in predicting survival in MB patients.\nLiterature records were retrieved on May 14th, 2024, using the relevant key terms without filters in PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Web of Science. Records were screened according to the eligibility criteria, and the data from the included studies were extracted. The quality assessment was performed using the QUADAS-2 tool. The meta-analysis and sensitivity analysis were conducted using R software.\nSix studies were included, with 2771 patients ranging from 46 to 1759 individuals. A total of 23 ML and DL models were developed, 20 of which were ML and three DL. Random forest (RF) was the most frequent classifier, as it was utilized in nine models, followed by support vector machine (SVM). Eight models were included in the meta-analysis. Our meta-analysis revealed a pooled AUC of 0.77 (95% CI: 0.75-0.80). In addition, the radionics-based and genomics-based models had a pooled AUC of 0.77 (95% CI: 0.76-079) and 0.76 (0.63-0.88), respectively (P\u2009=\u20090.77).\nOur results suggested that ML-based models, especially ML algorithms, could play a vital and efficient role in the prediction of survival of patients based on radiomics and genomics.", 
    "abstract": "The sustainable use of industrial byproducts in civil engineering is a global priority, especially in reducing the environmental impact of waste materials. Among these, coal ash from thermal power plants poses a significant challenge due to its high production volume and potential for environmental pollution. This study explores the use of controlled low-strength material (CLSM), a flowable fill made from coal ash, cement, aggregates, water, and admixtures, as a solution for large-scale coal ash utilization. CLSM is suitable for both structural and geotechnical applications, balancing waste management with resource conservation. This research focuses on two key CLSM properties: flowability and unconfined compressive strength (UCS) at 28\u00a0days. Traditional testing methods are resource-intensive, and empirical models often fail to accurately predict UCS due to complex nonlinear relationships among variables. To address these limitations, four machine learning models-minimax probability machine regression (MPMR), multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS), the group method of data handling (GMDH), and functional networks (FN) were employed to predict UCS. The MARS model performed best, achieving R", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to identify potential markers that can predict Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment (PDMCI). We retrospectively collected general demographic data, clinically relevant scales, plasma samples, and neuroimaging data (T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data as well as resting-state functional MRI [Rs-fMRI] data) from 173 individuals. Subsequently, based on the aforementioned multimodal indices, a support vector machine was employed to investigate the machine learning (ML) classification of PD patients with normal cognition (PDNC) and PDMCI. The performance of 29 classifiers was assessed based on various combinations of indicators. Results demonstrated that the optimal classifier in the validation set was composed by clinical + Rs-fMRI+ neurofilament light chain, exhibiting a mean Accuracy of 0.762, a mean area under curve of 0.840, a mean sensitivity of 0.745, along with a mean specificity of 0.783. The ML algorithm based on multimodal data demonstrated enhanced discriminative ability between PDNC and PDMCI patients.", 
    "abstract": "The human brain undergoes rapid changes from the fetal stage to two years postnatally, during which proper structural and functional maturation lays the foundation for later cognitive and behavioral development. Multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques, especially structural MRI (sMRI), diffusion MRI (dMRI), functional MRI (fMRI), and perfusion MRI (pMRI), provide unprecedented opportunities to non-invasively quantify these early brain changes at whole brain and regional levels. Each modality offers unique insights into the complex processes of both typical neurodevelopment and the pathological mechanisms underlying psychiatric and neurological disorders. Compared to a single modality, multimodal MRI enhances discriminative power and provides more comprehensive insights for understanding and improving neurodevelopmental and mental health outcomes, particularly in high-risk populations. Machine learning- and deep learning-based methods have demonstrated significant potential for predicting future outcomes using multimodal brain MRI acquired during early childhood. Here, we review the unique characteristics of various MRI techniques for imaging early brain development and describe the common approaches to analyze these modalities. We then discuss machine learning approaches in predicting future neurodevelopmental and clinical outcomes using multimodal MRI information during early childhood, highlighting the potential of identifying biomarkers for early detection and personalized interventions in atypical development.", 
    "abstract": "The prognosis for gallbladder adenocarcinoma (GBAC), a highly malignant cancer, is not good. In order to facilitate individualized risk stratification and improve clinical decision-making, this study set out to create and validate a machine learning model that could accurately predict early survival outcomes in GBAC patients. Five models-RSF, Cox regression, GBM, XGBoost, and Deepsurv-were compared using data from the SEER database (2010-2020). The dataset was divided into training (70%) and validation (30%) sets, and the C-index, ROC curves, calibration curves, and decision curve analysis (DCA) were used to assess the model's performance. At 1, 2, and 3-year survival intervals, the RSF model performed better than the others in terms of calibration, discrimination, and clinical net benefit. The most important predictor of survival, according to SHAP analysis, is AJCC stage. Patients were divided into high, medium, and low-risk groups according to RSF-derived risk scores, which revealed notable variations in survival results. These results demonstrate the RSF model's potential as an early survival prediction tool for GBAC patients, which could enhance individualized treatment and decision-making.", 
    "abstract": "Wetlands play a crucial role in enhancing groundwater quality, mitigating natural hazards, controlling erosion, and providing essential habitats for unique flora and wildlife. Despite their significance, wetlands are facing decline in various global locations, underscoring the need for effective mapping, monitoring, and predictive modeling approaches. Recent advances in machine learning, time series earth observation data, and cloud computing have opened up new possibilities to address the challenges of large-scale wetlands mapping and dynamics forecasting. This research conducts a comprehensive analysis of wetland dynamics in the Thatta region, encompassing Haleji & Kinjhar Lake in Pakistan, and evaluates the efficacy of different classification systems. Leveraging Google Earth Engine, Landsat imagery, and various spectral indices, we assess four classification techniques to derive accurate wetland mapping results. Our findings demonstrate that Random Forest emerged as the most efficient and accurate method, achieving 87% accuracy across all time periods. Change detection analysis reveals a significant and alarming decline in Haleji & Kinjhar Lake wetlands over 1990-2020, primarily driven by agricultural expansion, urbanization, groundwater extraction, and climate change impacts like rising temperatures and reduced precipitation. If left unaddressed, this continued wetland loss could have severe implications for aquatic and terrestrial species, water and soil quality, wildlife populations, and local livelihoods. The study predicts future wetland dynamics under different scenarios - enhancing drainage for farmland conversion (10-20% increase), increasing urbanization (10-20% expansion), escalating groundwater extraction (7.2m annual decline), and climate change (up to 5\u00a0\u00b0C warming and 54% precipitation deficit by 2050). These scenarios forecast sustained long-term wetland deterioration driven by anthropogenic pressures and climate change. To guide conservation strategies, the research integrates satellite data analytics, machine learning algorithms, and spatial modeling to generate actionable insights into multifaceted wetland vulnerabilities. Findings provide a robust baseline to inform policies ensuring sustainable management and preservation of these vital ecosystems amidst escalating human and climate threats. Over 1990-2020, the Thatta region witnessed a 352.8 sq.km loss of wetlands, necessitating urgent restoration efforts to safeguard their invaluable ecosystem services.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "People with traumatic brain injury (TBI) are at high risk for infection and sepsis. The aim of the study was to develop and validate an explainable machine learning(ML) model based on clinical features for early prediction of the risk of sepsis in TBI patients.\nWe enrolled all patients with TBI in the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care IV database from 2008 to 2019. All patients were randomly divided into a training set (70%) and a test set (30%). The univariate and multivariate regression analyses were used for feature selection. Six ML methods were applied to develop the model. The predictive performance of different models were determined based on the area under the curve (AUC) and calibration curves in the test cohort. In addition, we selected the eICU Collaborative Research Database version 1.2 as the external validation dataset. Finally, we used the Shapley additive interpretation to account for the effects of features attributed to the model.\nOf the 1555 patients enrolled in the final cohort, 834 (53.6%) patients developed sepsis after TBI. Six variables were associated with concomitant sepsis and were used to develop ML models. Of the 6 models constructed, the Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB) model achieved the best performance with an AUC of 0.807 and an accuracy of 74.5% in the internal validation cohort, and an AUC of 0.762 for the external validation. Feature importance analysis revealed that use mechanical ventilation, SAPSII score, use intravenous pressors, blood transfusion on admission, history of diabetes, and presence of post-stroke sequelae were the top six most influential features of the XGB model.\nAs shown in the study, the ML model could be used to predict the occurrence of sepsis in patients with TBI in the intensive care unit.", 
    "abstract": "This systematic review explores the application of machine learning (ML) algorithms in sickle cell disease (SCD), focusing on diagnosis and several clinical characteristics, such as early detection of organ failure, identification of drug dosage, and classification of pain intensity. A comprehensive analysis of recent studies reveals promising results in using ML techniques for diagnosing and monitoring SCD. The review covers various ML algorithms, including Multilayer Perceptron, Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, Long short-term memory, Extreme Learning Machines, Convolutional Neural Networks, and Transfer Learning methods. Despite significant advances, challenges such as limited dataset sizes, interpretability concerns, and risks of overfitting are identified in studies. Future research directions entail addressing these limitations by harnessing larger and more representative datasets, enhancing model interpretability, and exploring advanced ML techniques like deep learning. Overall, this review underscores the transformative potential of ML in increasing the diagnosis, monitoring and define prognosis of sickle cell disease while also highlighting the need for further investigation in the field.", 
    "abstract": "Due to their safety, high activity, and plentiful sources, antioxidant peptides, particularly those produced from food, are thought to be prospective competitors to synthetic antioxidants in the fight against free radical-mediated illnesses. The lengthy and laborious trial-and-error method for identifying antioxidative peptides (AOP) has raised interest in creating computational-based methods. There exist two state-of-the-art AOP predictors; however, the restriction on peptide sequence length makes them inviable. By overcoming the aforementioned problem, a novel predictor might be useful in the context of AOP prediction. The method has been trained, tested, and evaluated on two datasets: a balanced one and an unbalanced one. We used seven different descriptors and five machine-learning (ML) classifiers to construct 35 baseline models. Five ML classifiers were further trained to create five meta-models using the combined output of 35 baseline models. Finally, these five meta-models were aggregated together through ensemble learning to create a robust predictive model named iAnOxPep. On both datasets, our proposed model demonstrated good prediction performance when compared to baseline models and meta-models, demonstrating the superiority of our approach in the identification of AOPs. For the purpose of screening and identifying possible AOPs, we anticipate that the iAnOxPep method will be an invaluable tool.", 
    "abstract": "COVID-19 vaccination has become a pivotal global strategy in managing the pandemic. Despite COVID-19 no longer being classified as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, the virus continues affecting people worldwide. This study aimed to evaluate risk factors and vaccine effectiveness on COVID-19-related hospital admissions, intensive care unit (ICU) admission and mortality within the Andalusian population throughout the pandemic.\nFrom March 2020 to April 2022, 671,229 individuals, out of 9,283,485 with electronic health records in Andalusia, experienced SARS-CoV-2 infection and were included in the analysis. Data on demographics, medical history, vaccine administration, and hospitalization records were collected. Associations between medical history, COVID-19 vaccines, and COVID-19 outcomes were assessed.\nOur study identified 48,196 hospital admissions, 5,057 ICU admissions, and 11,289 deaths linked to COVID-19. Age, male sex, and chronic diseases were identified as risk factors, while the COVID-19 vaccine demonstrated protective effects, although with reduced effectiveness during the omicron variant period. However, the risk for these outcomes increased over time after receiving the last vaccine dose, particularly after six months, especially among those aged 60 or older.\nThe global health challenge of COVID-19 persists, marked by emerging variants with higher virulence and severity, particularly among the unvaccinated and those beyond six months post-vaccination, especially those aged 60 and above. These findings highlight the need for robust surveillance systems targeting new variants and administering booster doses, particularly for individuals aged 60 or older with underlying health conditions, to mitigate the global burden of COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "Studies on machine learning (ML) for the prediction of diabetic nephropathy (DN) in type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) patients are rare. This study focused on the development and external validation of an explainable ML model to predict the risk of DN among individuals with T1DM.\nThis was a retrospective, multicenter study conducted across 19 hospitals in Gansu Province, China (No: 2022-473). In total, 1368 patients were eligible for analysis among 1633 collected T1DM patients from January 2016 to December 2023. Recursive feature elimination using random forest and fivefold cross-validation was conducted to identify key features. Among the 12 initial ML algorithms, the optimal ML model was developed and validated externally in a distinct population, and its predictive outcomes were explained via the SHapley additive exPlanations method, which offered personalized decision insights.\nAmong the 1368 T1DM patients, 324 had DN. The extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) model, which achieved optimal performance with an AUC of 83% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 76\u201289), was selected to predict the risk of DN among T1DM patients. The DN predictive model included variables such as T1DM duration, postprandial glucose (PPG), systolic blood pressure (SBP), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), serum creatinine (Scr) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). External validation confirmed the reliability of the model, with an AUC of 76% (95% CI: 70\u201282).\nThe ML prediction tool has potential for advancing early and precise identification of the risk of DN among T1DM patients. Although successful external validation indicated that the developed model can provide a promising strategy for clinical adoption and help improve patient outcomes through timely and accurate risk assessment, additional prospective data and further validation in diverse populations are necessary.", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning is a powerful tool for analyzing biological data and making useful predictions. The surge of biological data from high-throughput omics technologies has raised the need for modeling approaches capable of tackling such amounts of data, which is pivotal to understanding the nature of complex molecular systems. Here, we show how to construct a simple model using automated machine learning (AutoML) to predict protein abundance in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, using data obtained from codon usage bias and quantitative proteomics.", 
    "abstract": "In fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe), cell length is a crucial indicator of cell cycle progression. Microscopy screens that examine the effect of agents or genotypes suspected of altering genomic or metabolic stability and thus cell size are crucial for studying disruptions to cell cycle dynamics. This method is based on using an automated cell segmentation algorithm to measure S. pombe cells imaged by brightfield (BF) microscopy methods. PhotoPhenosizer (PP) is a machine learning-based tool designed for automated cell measuring and dimensional analysis of morphology frequency distributions. Integration of this method into large-scale pipelines for tracking cell dimension change streamlines morphological measurements, which facilitates the examination of cellular responses to genomic and metabolic stresses. In this protocol, we use PP to observe the effect of genomic instability on cell size dynamics over a 12-day chronological lifespan assay. Our results show that relative to wild-type cells, a replication stress mutant shows larger cells during chronological aging in excess glucose media. Our results are consistent with activation of checkpoints that regulate cell morphology in response to DNA damage. This method's application highlights the relevance of its incorporation in experimental routines that require large-scale image processing and its adoption by users with routine needs in S. pombe molecular research projects.", 
    "abstract": "In computational heterogeneous catalysis, Sabatier's principle-based activity volcano plots provide an intuitive guide to catalyst design but impose a fundamental constraint on the maximum achievable catalytic performance. Recently, subnano clusters have emerged as an exciting platform, offering high noble metal utilization and superior performance for various reactions compared to extended surfaces, reflecting a complex structure-activity relationship in the non-scalable regime. However, understanding their non-monotonic catalytic activity, attributed to the large configurational space and their fluxional identity, poses a formidable challenge. Here, we present a machine learning (ML) framework that captures the non-monotonic trends in oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity at the subnanometer scale, attributed to their dynamic fluxional characteristics. We demonstrate a size-dependent shifting and reshaping of the ORR activity volcano, with Au replacing Pt at the peak. Leveraging only upon the non-", 
    "abstract": "Magnesium oxide (MgO) is a promising sorbent for direct air capture (DAC) of carbon dioxide. Iron (Fe) is a common impurity in naturally occurring MgO and minerals used to produce MgO, yet a molecular-scale understanding of Fe-doping effects on carbonation is lacking. Here, we observed reduced carbonation performance in Fe-doped MgO experimentally. The energetics of adsorbing a (bi)carbonate ion on pristine and Fe-doped MgO(001) surfaces were further investigated using ", 
    "abstract": "Vibrational non-Condon effects, which describe how molecular vibrational transitions are influenced by a system's rotational and translational degrees of freedom, are often overlooked in spectroscopy studies of biological macromolecules. In this work, we explore these effects in the modeling of infrared (IR) spectra for nucleic acids in the 1600-1800 cm", 
    "abstract": "This study synergizes machine learning (ML) with conceptual density functional theory (CDFT) to develop OECD-compliant predictive models for the mutagenic activity of aromatic amines (AAs) with a fully No-Code methodology using a comprehensive data set of 251 AAs, Leave-One-Out-Cross-Validation (LOOCV), and three distinct data splits. Our research employs the GFN2-xTB method, known for its robustness and speed, to compute descriptors for procarcinogens and their activated metabolites in vacuum and aqueous phases. We evaluate the effectiveness of different theoretical definitions of electrophilicity within CDFT, namely, PSL, GCV, and CDP schemes, and the newly introduced Log QP descriptor to approximate Log P information. SPAARC, RandomTree, and JCHAID* ML methods were used to build explainable predictive models with highly robust internal validation (Avg. Correct Classifications = 76% and Avg. Kappa = 0.29) and external validation (Avg. Correct Classifications = 79% and Avg. Kappa = 0.33) metrics, and the results were compared to those of a two hidden layer Multilayer Perceptron. The results indicate that the second CDP definition for the electrophilicity in both vacuum and aqueous phases and also the newly presented Log QP descriptors are the most important ones for predicting the mutagenic activity of AA (namely \u03c9", 
    "abstract": "Childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML) requires intensive chemotherapy, which may result in life-threatening bloodstream infections (BSIs). This study evaluated whether machine learning (ML) could predict BSI using electronic medical records. All children treated for AML at Children's Minnesota between 2005 and 2019 were included. Patients with Down syndrome AML or acute promyelocytic leukemia were excluded. Standard statistics analyzed predictors of BSI, and ML models were trained to predict BSI. Of 95 AML patients, 54.7% had BSI. Of 480 admissions, 19% included BSI. No deaths were related to BSI, and survival of non-Whites was significantly inferior to White patients. Logistic regression revealed that higher cytarabine doses increased the risk of BSI, with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.110 (P < 0.05). Prophylactic levofloxacin-vancomycin reduced the risk of BSI, with OR of 0.495 (P < 0.05). The best-performing ML model was regularized logistic regression with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.748, improved specificity by 37.5% compared with neutropenia, and 2.6% compared with fever. In conclusion, BSI risk was increased by cytarabine and reduced by levofloxacin-vancomycin prophylaxis. ML predicted BSI with improvement over fever or neutropenia. In clinical practice, ML may offer flexibility by controlling sensitivity and specificity by adjusting BSI diagnosis thresholds.", 
    "abstract": "The study of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) provides insight into various biological mechanisms, including the binding of antibodies to antigens, enzymes to inhibitors or promoters, and receptors to ligands. Recent studies of PPIs have led to significant biological breakthroughs. For example, the study of PPIs involved in the human:SARS-CoV-2 viral infection mechanism aided in the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. Though several databases exist for the manual curation of PPI networks, text mining methods have been routinely demonstrated as useful alternatives for newly studied or understudied species, where databases are incomplete. Here, the relationship extraction performance of several open-source classical text processing, machine learning (ML)-based natural language processing (NLP), and large language model (LLM)-based NLP tools was compared. Overall, our results indicated that networks derived from classical methods tend to have high true positive rates at the expense of having overconnected networks, ML-based NLP methods have lower true positive rates but networks with the closest structures to the target network, and LLM-based NLP methods tend to exist between the two other approaches, with variable performances. The selection of a specific NLP approach should be tied to the needs of a study and text availability, as models varied in performance due to the amount of text provided.", 
    "abstract": "MicroRNAs (miRs) are short, noncoding RNA strands that regulate the activity of mRNAs by affecting the repression of protein translation, and their dysregulation has been implicated in several pathologies. miR21 in particular has been implicated in tumorigenesis and anticancer drug resistance, making it a critical target for drug design. miR21 biogenesis involves precise biochemical pathways, including the cleavage of its precursor, pre-miR21, by the enzyme Dicer. The present work investigates the conformational dynamics of pre-miR21, focusing on the role of adenine29 in switching between Dicer-binding-prone and inactive states. We also investigated the effect of L50, a cyclic peptide binder of pre-miR21 and a weak inhibitor of its processing. Using time series data and our novel collective variable-based enhanced sampling technique, OneOPES, we simulated these conformational changes and assessed the effect of L50 on the conformational plasticity of pre-miR21. Our results provide insight into peptide-induced conformational changes and pave the way for the development of a computational platform for the screening of inhibitors of pre-miR21 processing that considers RNA flexibility, a stepping stone for effective structure-based drug design, with potentially broad applications in drug discovery.", 
    "abstract": "Adequate delivery of hemodialysis (HD), measured by the spKt/V derived from urea reduction, is an important determinant of clinical outcomes in chronic hemodialysis patients. However, the need for pre- and postdialysis blood samples prevented the assessment of spKt/V in every session.\nThis retrospective single-center study was performed on end-stage renal disease (ESKD) patients aged \u2265 18\u2009years who received standard thrice-weekly chronic HD therapy. Eighty-seven variables, including general, intradialytic, and laboratory variables, were collected from the medical records for analysis. Five steps of preprocessing procedure were deployed to select only the most relevant variables. Six binary classification models were developed to predict whether spKt/V was higher than 1.4.\nA total of 1869\u2009HD sessions from 373 ESKD patients were included in this study. The Random Forest model showed the best prediction for dialysis adequacy, with AUROC scores of 0.860 in the validation dataset and 0.873 in the testing dataset. Notably, an accessible model that solely relied on noninvasively collected general and dialysis-related variables maintained high prediction accuracy, with AUROC scores of 0.854 and 0.868 in the validation and testing datasets, respectively. The five most significant predictive variables were vascular access, gender, body mass index, ultrafiltration volume, and dialysis duration.\nThe study results suggest that the development of ML models for accurately predicting dialysis adequacy based on general and intradialytic variables is feasible. These models have the potential to be utilized for noninvasive clinical assessments of dialysis adequacy.", 
    "abstract": "In this study a Machine Learning model was employed to predict the lipid profile from supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) of microalgae ", 
    "abstract": "The influence of biomechanics on cell function has become increasingly defined over recent years. Biomechanical changes are known to affect oncogenesis; however, these effects are not yet fully understood. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) is the gold standard method for measuring tissue mechanics on the micro- or nano-scale. Due to its complexity, however, AFM has yet to become integrated in routine clinical diagnosis. Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) have the potential to make AFM more accessible, principally through automation of analysis. In this review, AFM and its use for the assessment of cell and tissue mechanics in cancer is described. Research relating to the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning in the analysis of AFM topography and force spectroscopy of cancer tissue and cells are reviewed. The application of machine learning and artificial intelligence to AFM has the potential to enable the widespread use of nanoscale morphologic and biomechanical features as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in cancer treatment.", 
    "abstract": "In the field of agriculture, the identification and classification of fruits have become necessary for sustainable growth in horticulture sectors. Recently, different types of advanced techniques have been used for the identification and classification of fruits. Machine learning is an emerging technology with robust application in different sectors that can be used for the classification of fruits. The basic requirement for the machine learning techniques is the availability of the dataset to develop a robust machine learning model. But the limited availability of the data set is one of the major challenges in this sector. The classification of fruits using non-destructive methods can be executed through the availability of a comprehensive dataset. The rapid and precise classification of the fruit according to their quality and maturity is the desired need of the fruit storage, processing, and export industries. Therefore, this article provides a comprehensive dataset for fruits (banana and guava) and their classification according to their quality classes. The dataset was acquired using a Redmi Note 10-Pro mobile camera in natural sunlight at different angles for different classes in JPG format. The acquired dataset was classified into three different categories, Class A, Class B, and Defect, based on their physiological changes. The obtained datasets can be used for the development of different machine learning models for the quality classification of banana and guava.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to predict the four cold-heat patterns in patients who have the subjective symptoms of the cold-heat pattern described in the International Classification of Diseases Traditional Medicine Conditions - Module 1 by applying a machine learning algorithm.\nSubjects were first-visit Kampo outpatients at six institutions who agreed to participate in this multicenter prospective observational study. The cold pattern model and the heat pattern model were created separately with 148 symptoms, body mass index, blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), age, and sex. Along with a single cold or heat pattern, the tangled heat/cold pattern is defined as being predicted by both cold and heat patterns, while the moderate (heat/cold) pattern is defined as being predicted by neither the cold pattern nor the heat pattern.\nWe included 622 participants (mean age \u00b1standard deviation, 54.4 \u00b1 16.9; with female 501). The accuracy, macro-recall, precision, and F1-score of a combination of the two prediction models were 96.7%, 93.2%, 85.6%, and 88.5% respectively. The important items were compatible with the definitions of the cold-heat pattern.\nWe developed a prediction model on cold-heat patterns with data from patients whose subjective cold/heat-related symptoms matched the cold-heat pattern diagnosis by the physician.", 
    "abstract": "Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common and progressive disease that is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors, and genetic factors are important determinants of COPD. This study focuses on screening the best predictive models for assessing COPD-associated SNPs and then using the best models to predict potential risk factors for COPD.\nHealthy subjects (n=290) and COPD patients (n=233) were included in this study, the Agena MassARRAY platform was applied to genotype the subjects for SNPs. The selected sample loci were first screened by logistic regression analysis, based on which the key SNPs were further screened by LASSO regression, RFE algorithm and Random Forest algorithm, and the ROC curves were plotted to assess the discriminative performance of the models to screen the best prediction model. Finally, the best prediction model was used for the prediction of risk factors for COPD.\nOne-way logistic regression analysis screened 44 candidate SNPs from 146 SNPs, on the basis of which 44 SNPs were screened or feature ranked using LASSO model, RFE-Caret, RFE-Lda, RFE-lr, RFE-nb, RFE-rf, RFE-treebag algorithms and random forest model, respectively, and obtained ROC curve values of 0.809, 0.769, 0.798, 0.743, 0.686, 0.766, 0.743, 0.719, respectively, so we selected the lasso model as the best model, and then constructed a column-line graph model for the 25 SNPs screened in it, and found that rs12479210 might be the potential risk factors for COPD.\nThe LASSO model is the best predictive model for COPD and rs12479210 may be a potential risk locus for COPD.", 
    "abstract": "We aim to develop an MRI-based radiomics model to improve the accuracy of differentiating non-ccRCC from benign renal tumors preoperatively.\nThe retrospective study included 195 patients with pathologically confirmed renal tumors (134 non-ccRCCs and 61 benign renal tumors) who underwent preoperative renal mass protocol MRI examinations. The patients were divided into a training set (n = 136) and test set (n = 59). Simple t-test and the Least Absolute Shrink and Selection Operator (LASSO) were used to select the most valuable features and the rad-scores of them were calculated. The clinicoradiologic models, single-sequence radiomics models, multi-sequence radiomics models and combined models for differentiation were constructed with 2 classifiers (support vector machine (SVM), logistic regression (LR)) in the training set and used for differentiation in the test set. Ten-fold cross validation was applied to obtain the optimal hyperparameters of the models. The performances of the models were evaluated by the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC). Delong's test was performed to compare the performances of models.\nAfter univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis, the independent risk factors to differentiate non-ccRCC from benign renal tumors were selected as follows: age, tumor region, hemorrhage, pseudocapsule and enhancement degree. Among the 14 machine learning classification models constructed, the combined model with LR has the highest efficiency in differentiating non-ccRCC from benign renal tumors. The AUC in the training set is 0.964, and the accuracy is 0.919. The AUC in the test set is 0.936, and the accuracy is 0.864.\nThe MRI-based radiomics machine learning is feasible to differentiate non-ccRCC from benign renal tumors, which could improve the accuracy of clinical diagnosis.", 
    "abstract": "Given the crucial role of specific matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in the extracellular matrix, an imbalance in the regulation of activation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) zymogen and inhibition of the enzyme can result in various diseases, such as cancer, neurodegenerative, and gynecological diseases. Thus, developing novel therapeutics that target MMP-9 with single-chain antibody fragments (scFvs) is a promising approach. We used fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS) to screen a synthetic scFv antibody library displayed on yeast for enhanced binding to MMP-9. The screened scFv mutants demonstrated improved binding to MMP-9 compared to the natural inhibitor of MMPs, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). To identify the molecular determinants of these engineered scFv variants that affect binding to MMP-9, we used next-generation DNA sequencing and computational protein structure analysis. Additionally, a deep-learning language model was trained on the screened scFv library of variants to predict the binding affinities of scFv variants based on their CDR-H3 sequences.", 
    "abstract": "Deciphering the effect of evolutionary mutations of viruses and predicting future mutations is crucial for designing long-lasting and effective drugs. While understanding the impact of current mutations on protein drug targets is feasible, predicting future mutations due to natural evolution of viruses and environmental pressures remains challenging. Here, we leveraged existing mutation data during the evolution of the SARS-CoV-2 protein drug target main protease (M", 
    "abstract": "Air pollution from vehicle emissions, industrial activities, and medical facilities poses significant health risks in urban areas, underscoring the necessity for robust air quality index (AQI) monitoring. This paper presents a novel method for AQI prediction by integrating a fuzzy centre merge graph with an optimal value-based fuzzy inference system (FCMG-OP-FIS) and machine learning (ML). Traditional ML techniques encounter difficulties when converting regression datasets into classification formats, particularly when unable to label the dataset using the traditional method. The proposed FCMG-OP-FIS model efficiently converts regression data into a classification framework. Unlike traditional AQI prediction methods that rely solely on pollutant data, this approach incorporates both pollutant and meteorological data to improve prediction accuracy. The innovative fuzzy centre merge graph (FCMG) balances the dataset for optimal solutions and facilitates input grouping for Simulink, simplifying rule management. The FCMG-OP-FIS model generates a regression output for AQI, which is subsequently classified into levels (healthy, moderate, or unhealthy) using IF-THEN rules. To enhance accuracy further, a random forest classifier (RFC) is trained on the FCMG-OP-FIS classified output data. The regression output of the FCMG-OP-FIS model is validated using metrics such as RMSE (0.48), MSE (0.23), MAE (0.23), and MAPE (1.77%). Additionally, the classification output from the RFC model employs advanced validation techniques including stratified shuffle validation, grid search cross-validation, and confusion matrix analysis, achieving an accuracy rate of 99%, with the F1 score, precision, and recall over all at 99%. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model in accurately labelling data for classification and predicting AQI through ML, highlighting its potential for practical application in environmental monitoring and management.", 
    "abstract": "Atrial fibrillation (AF) emerges as a pivotal risk determinant for unfavorable outcomes in septic patients. Despite its recognized role, the enduring impact of AF on sepsis prognosis remains ambiguous. This investigation seeks to elucidate the connection between AF and both short and long-term outcomes in sepsis patients. Additionally, it aims to formulate a prognostic model for 1-year mortality utilizing pertinent clinical variables.\nA retrospective analysis encompassed sepsis patients admitted to Beth Israel Deacon Medical Center's intensive care unit. The evaluation encompassed the prevalence of AF and its influence on hospitalization duration, stays in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), and mortality rates at distinct intervals. Propensity score matching was implemented to mitigate confounding factors. Machine learning techniques, including the Least Absolute Selection and Shrinkage Operator (LASSO) regression and random forest, were deployed for model development.\nAF exhibited a correlation with heightened mortality rates at 7 days, 28 days, and 1 year. The resultant predictive model demonstrated superior efficacy compared to prevailing clinical critical illness scores in forecasting mortality risk. Crucial predictors in the model included variables such as RDW, weight, age, BUN, lactate, temperature, MCHC, MBP, ALP, and hemoglobin.\nAF emerges as a substantial peril for adverse outcomes in sepsis patients. The risk model, encompassing pertinent clinical variables, outperformed existing clinical critical illness scores in mortality prediction. This model furnishes valuable insights for risk stratification, augmenting prognostic precision in sepsis patients with concomitant AF.", 
    "abstract": "Despite new therapies against malaria, this disease remains one of the main causes of death affecting humanity. The phenomenon of resistance has caused concern as the drugs no longer have the same efficacy, forcing scientific research to develop new methods that prospect new molecules. With the advancement of artificial intelligence, it becomes possible to apply machine learning (ML) techniques in the discovery and evaluation of new molecules, by employing the quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR), a classic method that uses regressions to create a model that allows identifying and evaluating new drug candidates. This work combined QSAR with ML and developed a supervised model that modeled a fourth degree polynomial equation capable of identifying new drug candidates derived from the triclosan compound-a classic inhibitor of ", 
    "abstract": "Andean highland soils contain significant quantities of soil organic carbon (SOC); however, more efforts still need to be made to understand the processes behind the accumulation and persistence of SOC and its fractions. This study modeled SOC variables-SOC, refractory SOC (RSOC), and the \nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10021-024-00928-7.", 
    "abstract": "Breast cancer (BRCA) represents a substantial global health challenge marked by inadequate early detection rates. The complex interplay between the tumor immune microenvironment and fatty acid metabolism in BRCA requires further investigation to elucidate the specific role of lipid metabolism in this disease.\nWe systematically integrated nine machine learning algorithms into 184 unique combinations to develop a consensus model for lipid metabolism-related prognostic genes (LMPGS). Additionally, transcriptomics analysis provided a comprehensive understanding of this prognostic signature. Using the ESTIMATE method, we evaluated immune infiltration among different risk subgroups and assessed their responsiveness to immunotherapy. Tailored treatments were screened for specific risk subgroups. Finally, we verified the expression of key genes through \nWe identified 259 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to lipid metabolism through analysis of the cancer genome atlas program (TCGA) database. Subsequently, via univariate Cox regression analysis and C-index analysis, we developed an optimal machine learning algorithm to construct a 21-gene LMPGS model. We used optimal cutoff values to divide the lipid metabolism prognostic gene scores into two groups according to high and low scores. Our study revealed distinct biological functions and mutation landscapes between high-scoring and low-scoring patients. The low-scoring group presented a greater immune score, whereas the high-scoring group presented enhanced responses to both immunotherapy and chemotherapy drugs. Single-cell analysis highlighted significant upregulation of CPNE3 in epithelial cells. Moreover, by employing molecular docking, we identified niclosamide as a potential targeted therapeutic drug. Finally, our experiments demonstrated high expression of MTMR9 and CPNE3 in BRCA and their significant correlation with prognosis.\nBy employing bioinformatics and diverse machine learning algorithms, we successfully identified genes associated with lipid metabolism in BRCA and uncovered potential therapeutic agents, thereby offering novel insights into the mechanisms and treatment strategies for BRCA.", 
    "abstract": "This study assesses COVID-19 booster intentions and hesitancy in Texas, a state known for its diversity and libertarian values. A survey was conducted with 274 participants residing in Texas between June and July 2022. The analysis examined sociodemographic and health-related factors, trusted information sources, and preventive behaviors. The survey focused on vaccinated participants and their intention to receive the booster dose, which was categorized into three outcomes: yes, no, and not sure. Machine learning techniques were employed to analyze the survey responses of vaccinated participants to identify the most critical factors. Among the participants, 113 expressed their intention to get the booster (41.2%), 107 did not plan to receive the booster (39.1%), and 54 remained undecided (19.7%). Our findings indicate that the perception of vaccine safety significantly influenced the decision to receive the booster dose. Those who reported trust in social media contacts as reliable information sources were more likely to intend to boost. Additionally, among those hospitalized when diagnosed with COVID-19, the largest proportion were unwilling to receive the booster (47.0%) compared to those who intended to receive the booster (33.3%). In contrast, most of those who believed they would be hospitalized if infected with COVID-19 intended to get the booster. Other factors did not demonstrate a significant association. Our findings are highly transferable and can offer valuable insights, particularly for countries where COVID-19 remains prevalent and are pivotal both presently and in the future for developing strategies to improve booster uptake and shape public health initiatives in epidemic and pandemic outbreaks.", 
    "abstract": "Social-emotional skills are vital for individual development, yet research on which skills most effectively promote students' mental and physical health, particularly from a global perspective, remains limited. This study aims to address this gap by identifying the most important social-emotional skills using global data and machine learning approaches. Data from 61,585 students across nine countries, drawn from the OECD Social-Emotional Skills Survey, were analyzed (N", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Pompe disease, a severe lysosomal storage disorder, is marked by heart problems, muscle weakness, and respiratory difficulties. This study aimed to identify novel markers for infantile-onset Pompe disease by analyzing key genes and immune cells infiltrating affected skeletal muscles, building on existing research linking its progression to the immune cell infiltration. The datasets GSE38680 and GSE159062 were downloaded and differential expression genes (DEGs) were identified. Potential markers were screened using support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) analysis and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression models. To analyze DEGs and immune processes, 22 immune cell types in affected tissues were examined using CIBERSORT. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis revealed significant enrichment in the calcium signaling pathway, phosphatidylinositol signaling system, ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis and JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Machine learning identified GPNMB, CALML6 and TRIM7 as key genes. Immune cell infiltration analysis showed that the expression levels of the above three genes were closely related to immune cells in our target population under study, including T cells regulatory (Tregs), monocytes, macrophages M0, resting and activated dendritic cells, naive and memory B cells. Overall, our study results may provide new clues for exploring markers related to Pompe disease by highlighting key genes and their relationship with immune infiltration, offering insights into the disease's development. However, previous studies have shown limited evidence of significant immune cell infiltration in muscle biopsies from Pompe patients, and this lack of direct evidence necessitates further investigation and experimental validation in laboratory settings to confirm these associations.", 
    "abstract": "Lanthanide-based nanomaterials offer a promising alternative for cancer therapy because of their selectivity and effectiveness, which can be modified and predicted by leveraging the improved accuracy and enhanced decision-making of machine learning (ML) modeling.\nIn this study, erbium (Er\nThe (Er, Yb)-doped ZnO NPs exhibited laminar-type morphologies, negative surface charges, and optical bandgaps that vary with the presence of Er\nThis study demonstrates, for the first time, the synthesis of ZnO NPs doped with Er and Yb via a solution polymerization route. According to characterization results, it was unveiled that the effect of optical bandgap variations influenced the cytotoxic performance of the developed lanthanide-doped ZnO NPs, being the undoped ZnO NPs the most cytotoxic ones. The presence alone or in combination of Er and Yb enhanced their scavenging capacity. ML models such as ET and RF efficiently demonstrated that the concentration and cell line type are key parameters that influence the cytotoxicity of (Er, Yb)-doped ZnO NPs achieving high accuracy rates of 98.96% and 98.67%, respectively. This study expands the knowledge of lanthanides as dopants of nanomaterials for biological and medical applications and supports their potential in cancer therapy by integrating robust ML approaches.", 
    "abstract": "This chapter highlights the intersection of pain neuromodulation and machine learning (ML), exploring current limitations in pain management and how ML techniques can address these challenges. Neuromodulation technologies, such as spinal cord stimulation (SCS), have emerged as promising interventions for chronic pain, but limitations such as patient selection have resulted in high rates of failure and costly removal of these devices. ML offers a powerful approach to augment pain management outcomes by leveraging predictive modeling for enhanced patient selection, adaptive algorithms for programming optimization, and identification of objective biomarkers for improved outcome assessment. This chapter discusses various ML applications in pain neuromodulation and how we can expect it to shape the future of the field. While ML holds great promise, challenges such as algorithm transparency, data quality, and generalizability must be addressed to fully realize its potential in revolutionizing pain management.", 
    "abstract": "The integration of machine learning (ML) and radiomics is emerging as a pivotal advancement in glioma research, offering novel insights into the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of these complex tumors. Radiomics involves the extraction of a multitude of quantitative features from medical images. When these features are analyzed through ML algorithms, the precision of tumor characterization is enhanced beyond traditional methods.This chapter examines the application of both supervised and unsupervised ML techniques for interpreting radiomic data, highlighting their potential for accurately predicting tumor grade, identifying genetic mutations, estimating patient survival rates, and evaluating treatment responses. The ability of ML-based radiomic analysis to discern intricate patterns in tumor imaging, imperceptible to human observation, is particularly emphasized.Challenges in this field, including data diversity, overfitting risks, and the need for extensive, annotated datasets, are critically assessed. The necessity of integrating these advanced technologies into clinical practice through interdisciplinary collaboration is underscored as a crucial factor for their effective utilization.Overall, the synergy between ML and radiomics in glioma research represents a significant step toward personalized medicine, offering enhanced tools for patient-specific treatment strategies.", 
    "abstract": "This review aims to evaluate the current psychiatric applications and limitations of machine learning (ML), defined as techniques used to train algorithms to improve performance at a task based on data. The review emphasizes the clinician's role in ensuring equitable and effective patient care and seeks to inform mental health providers about the importance of clinician involvement in these technologies.\nML in psychiatry has advanced through electronic health record integration, disease phenotyping, and remote monitoring through mobile applications. However, these applications face challenges related to health equity, privacy, translation to practice, and validation. Clinicians play crucial roles in ensuring data quality, mitigating biases, promoting algorithm transparency, guiding clinical implementation, and advocating for ethical and patient-centered use of ML tools. Clinicians are essential in addressing the challenges of ML, ensuring its ethical application, and promoting equitable care, thus improving the effectiveness of ML in practice.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "To examine the test-retest reliability, responsiveness, and clinical utility of the machine learning-based short-form of the Berg Balance Scale (BBS-ML) in persons with stroke.\nRepeated measures design.\nA department of rehabilitation in a medical center.\nThis study recruited two groups: 50 persons who were more than 6 months post-stroke to examine the test-retest reliability, and 52 persons who were within 3 months post-stroke to examine the responsiveness. Test-retest reliability was investigated by administering assessments twice at a 2-week interval. Responsiveness was investigated by gathering data at admission and discharge from hospital.\nNot applicable.\nBBS-ML.\nThe BBS-ML exhibited excellent test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient\u202f=\u202f0.99), acceptable minimal random measurement error (minimal detectable change %\u202f=\u202f13.6%), and good responsiveness (Kazis' effect size and standardized response mean values \u2265 1.34). On average, the participants completed the BBS-ML in around 6 minutes per administration.\nOur findings indicate that the BBS-ML appears an efficient measure with excellent test-retest reliability and responsiveness. Moreover, the BBS-ML may be utilized as a substitute for the original BBS to monitor the progress of balance function in persons with stroke.", 
    "abstract": "Interpretable causal machine learning (ICML) was used to predict the performance of denitrification and clarify the relationships between influencing factors and denitrification. Multiple models were examined, and XG-Boost model provided the best prediction (R", 
    "abstract": "Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) of the oral cavity is a rare head and neck cancer. This rarity contributes to the paucity of comprehensive research on this cancer thereby complicating the development of evidence-based treatment strategies. This study aims to use machine learning (ML) techniques to analyze survival outcomes and optimize treatment approaches of ACC.\nThe SEER database (2000-2020) was used in this study. Cox regression analysis was used to identify the prognostic variables; prognostic models using five ML algorithms were constructed to predict the 5-year survival rates. A validation method incorporating the area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to validate the accuracy and reliability of ML models. Also, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed.\nThis study's sample included 645 patients. The most common primary site for ACC was the hard palate, followed by the cheek mucosa. Survival rates varied across treatment groups, with the highest rates observed in patients who underwent surgery only. ML models revealed that the most significant prognostic factors were age, metastasis, and surgery.\nThis study contributes evidence and knowledge to the limited literature on ACC and emphasizes the importance of adjuvant radiotherapy. This study highlights that metastasis and age are key prognostic factors. Furthermore, the developed ML-based web tool offers a novel approach for the personalized prognosis of these rare cancer types.", 
    "abstract": "Quantifying individualized rehabilitation responses and optimizing therapy for each person is challenging. For interventions like treadmill training, there are multiple parameters, such as speed or incline, that can be adjusted throughout sessions. This study evaluates if causal modeling and Bayesian Additive Regression Trees (BART) can be used to accurately track the direct effects of treadmill training on gait. We developed a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) to specify the assumed relationship between training input parameters and spatiotemporal outcomes during Short Burst Locomotor Treadmill Training (SBLTT), a therapy designed specifically for children with cerebral palsy (CP). We evaluated outcomes after 24 sessions of SBLTT for simulated datasets of 150 virtual participants and experimental data from four children with CP, ages 4-13\u00a0years old. Individual BART models were created from treadmill data of each step. Simulated datasets demonstrated that BART could accurately identify specified responses to training, including strong correlations for step length progression (R", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major neurodegenerative disorder in Middle-aged and elderly people.There is a pressing need for effective predictive models, particularly in chinese population.\nThis study aims to develop and validate a machine learning-based diagnostic model to identify individuals with PD in community-dwelling populations using data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS).\nWe utilized data from 19,134 individuals aged 45 and above from the CHARLS dataset, with 265 adults reported to have PD. The external validation cohort included 1500 individuals, with 21 (1.4\u00a0%) having PD.The random forest (RF) algorithm was used to develop an interpretable PD prediction model, which was internally validated using 10-fold cross-validation and externally validated with a dataset from Northern Jiangsu People's Hospital. SHapley Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values were employed to elucidate the model's predictions.\nThe RF model demonstrated robust performance with an Area Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.884 and high sensitivity, specificity, and F1 scores. The model's performance in external validation cohort, highlighting an AUC of 0.82 and an accuracy of 0.99. The model's performance remained consistent across internal and external validation cohorts. SHAP analysis provided insights into the importance and interaction of various predictors, enhancing model interpretability.\nThe study presents a highly accurate and interpretable machine learning-based diagnostic model to identify individuals with PD in middle-aged and older Chinese adults. By combined with predictive risk factors and chronic disease information, the model offers valuable insights for early identification and intervention, potentially mitigating PD progression.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the diagnostic performance of Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) models for predicting preoperative Lymph Node Metastasis (LNM) in Colorectal Cancer (CRC) patients.\nA systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted following PRISMA-DTA and AMSTAR-2 guidelines. We searched PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and Cochrane Library databases until February 16, 2024. Study quality and risk of bias were assessed using the QUADAS-2 tool. Data were analyzed using STATA v18, applying random-effects models to all analyses.\nTwelve studies involving 8321 patients were included, with most published in 2021-2024 (9/12). The pooled AUC of ML models for predicting LNM in CRC patients was 0.87 (95% CI: 0.82-0.91, I\nML models demonstrate strong potential for preoperative LNM staging and treatment planning in CRC, potentially reducing the need for additional surgeries and related health and financial burdens. Further prospective multicenter studies, with standardized reporting of algorithms, modality parameters, and LNM staging, are needed to validate these findings.", 
    "abstract": "Breast cancer remains a leading cause of mortality among women worldwide, necessitating innovative prognostic models to enhance treatment strategies.\nOur study retrospectively enrolled 9,439 breast cancer patients from 12 independent datasets and single-cell data from 12 patients (64,308 cells). Moverover, 30 in-house clinical cohort were collected for validation. We employed a comprehensive approach by combining ten distinct machine learning algorithms across 108 different combinations to scrutinize 88 pre-existing signatures of breast cancer. To affirm the efficacy of our developed model, immunohistochemistry assays were performed. Additionally, we investigated various potential immunotherapeutic and chemotherapeutic interventions.\nThis study introduces an Artificial Intelligence-aided Redox Signature (AIARS) as a novel prognostic tool, leveraging machine learning to identify critical redox-related gene signatures in breast cancer. Our results demonstrate that AIARS significantly outperforms existing prognostic models in predicting breast cancer outcomes, offering a robust tool for personalized treatment planning. Validation through immunohistochemistry assays on samples from 30 patients corroborated our results, underscoring the model's applicability on a wider scale. Furthermore, the analysis revealed that patients with low AIARS expression levels are more responsive to immunotherapy. Conversely, those exhibiting high AIARS were found to be more susceptible to certain chemotherapeutic agents, including vincristine.\nOur study underscores the importance of redox biology in breast cancer prognosis and introduces a powerful machine learning-based tool, the AIARS, for personalized treatment strategies. By providing a more nuanced understanding of the redox landscape in breast cancer, the AIARS paves the way for the development of redox-targeted therapies, promising to enhance patient outcomes significantly. Future work will focus on clinical validation and exploring the mechanistic roles of identified genes in cancer biology.", 
    "abstract": "Viral proteins that evade the host's innate immune response play a crucial role in pathogenesis, significantly impacting viral infections and potential therapeutic strategies. Identifying these proteins through traditional methods is challenging and time-consuming due to the complexity of virus-host interactions. Leveraging advancements in computational biology, we present VirusHound-II, a novel tool that utilizes machine learning techniques to predict viral proteins evading the innate immune response with high accuracy. We evaluated a comprehensive range of machine learning models, including ensemble methods, neural networks, and support vector machines. Using a dataset of 1337 viral proteins known to evade the innate immune response (VPEINRs) and an equal number of non-VPEINRs, we employed pseudo amino acid composition as the molecular descriptor. Our methodology involved a tenfold cross-validation strategy on 80% of the data for training, followed by testing on an independent dataset comprising the remaining 20%. The random forest model demonstrated superior performance metrics, achieving 0.9290 accuracy, 0.9283 F1 score, 0.9354 precision, and 0.9213 sensitivity in the independent testing phase. These results establish VirusHound-II as an advancement in computational virology, accessible via a user-friendly web application. We anticipate that VirusHound-II will be a crucial resource for researchers, enabling the rapid and reliable prediction of viral proteins evading the innate immune response. This tool has the potential to accelerate the identification of therapeutic targets and enhance our understanding of viral evasion mechanisms, contributing to the development of more effective antiviral strategies and advancing our knowledge of virus-host interactions.", 
    "abstract": "Second-trimester miscarriage is a common adverse pregnancy outcome that imposes substantial economic and psychological pressures on both the physical and mental well-being of patients and their families. Currently, there is a scarcity of research on predictive models for the risk of second-trimester miscarriage.\nClinical data were retrospectively collected from patients who were in the second trimester of pregnancy (between 14+0 and 27+6 weeks gestation), whose main diagnosis was \"threatened abortion\" and who were hospitalized at the Women and Children's Hospital of Ningbo University from January 2020 to October 2023. Following preliminary data processing, the patient cohort was randomly stratified into a training cohort and a validation cohort at proportions of 70% and 30%, respectively. The Boruta algorithm and multifactor analysis were used to refine feature factors and determine the optimal features linked to second-trimester miscarriages. The imbalanced dataset from the training cohort was rectified by applying the SMOTE oversampling approach. Seven machine-learning models were built and subjected to a comprehensive analysis to validate and evaluate their predictive capabilities. Through this rigorous assessment, the optimal model was selected. Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) were generated to provide insights into the model's predictions, and a visual representation of the predictive model was built.\nA total of 2006 patients were included in the study; 395 (19.69%) of them had second-trimester miscarriages. XGBoost was shown to be the optimal model after a comparison of seven different models utilizing metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, the F1 score, precision-recall average precision, the receiver operating characteristic-area under the curve, decision curve analysis, and the calibration curve. The most significant feature was cervical length, and the top ten features of second-trimester miscarriage were found using the SHAP technique based on relevance rankings.\nThe risk of a second-trimester miscarriage can be accurately predicted by the visual risk prediction model, which is based on the machine learning mentioned above.", 
    "abstract": "Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder characterized by low bone mass, bone fragility and short stature. There is a significant gap in knowledge regarding the growth patterns across different types of OI, and the prediction of height in individuals with OI was not adequately addressed. In this study, we described the growth patterns and predicted the height of individuals with OI employing multiple machine learning (ML) models. Accurate height prediction enables effective monitoring and facilitates the development of personalized intervention plans for managing OI.\nThis study included cross-sectional data for 323 participants with OI, and the median height Z-score for OI types I, III and IV were -\u20090.62 (-5.93\u2009~\u20093.24), -3.97 (-10.44 ~ -0.02) and -\u20091.64 (-6.67\u2009~\u20092.44), respectively. Based on the cross-sectional data of participants, the height curves across different gender and OI types were plotted and compared. Subsequently, feature selection techniques, specifically the filter and wrapper methods, were employed to identify predictive factors for the height of participants. Finally, multiple machine learning (ML) models were constructed for height prediction, and the performance of each model was systematically evaluated.\nThe analysis of height curves revealed that male with OI are significantly taller than female with OI from the age of 14 (p\u2009=\u20090.045), individuals with OI type III are statistically shorter than those with OI types I and IV starting from 3 years old (p\u2009=\u20090.006), and those with OI type IV are statistically shorter than those with OI type I from the age of 10 (p\u2009=\u20090.028). The application of filter and wrapper methods identified gender (p\u2009=\u20090.001), age (p\u2009<\u20090.001), Sillence types (p\u2009=\u20090.007), weight Z-score (p\u2009<\u20090.001) and aBMD Z-score (p\u2009=\u20090.021) as significant predictive factors for height. The optimal performance of predictive models was registered by gradient boosting classifier (GB) (bias\u2009=\u20095.783, accuracy\u2009=\u200992.59%, R\nThis study analyzed a large cohort of individuals with OI and provided detailed height patterns across different gender and OI types that are crucial for assessing overall growth. Gender, age, Sillence types, weight Z-score and aBMD Z-score were identified as predictive factors for height. The predictive models of GB, RF, EML and DNNs had higher accuracy to evaluate the height of individuals with OI. This study allows guardians and physicians to timely monitor the height parameters, and facilitate the creation of personalized intervention schedules tailored to the needs of individuals with OI.", 
    "abstract": "Near-surface air temperature (Tair) is crucial for assessing urban thermal conditions and their impact on human health. Traditional Tair estimation methods, reliant on sparse weather stations, often miss spatial variability. This study proposes a novel framework using a federated learning artificial neural network (FLANN) for fine-scale Tair prediction. Leveraging spatially complete thermal data from Landsat 8/9, Sentinel 3, and Himawari 8/9 (105 acquisition days, 2013-2023), and data from automatic weather stations, 23 predictor variables were extracted. After rigorous selection processes, nine variables significantly correlated with Tair were identified. Comparative analysis against established machine learning and linear models, using cross-validation data, showed FLANN's superior performance with a Pearson correlation coefficient (r) of 0.98 and a root mean square error (RMSE) of 0.97\u00a0K, compared to r and RMSE of 0.85 and 1.09, respectively, for the linear model. FLANN showed greater improvements for urban stations with r and RMSE differences of 0.19 and -\u20092.03\u00a0K. Application of FLANN to predict Tair in Hong Kong in July 2023 enabled detailed urban heat island (UHI) analysis, revealing dynamic spatial and temporal UHI patterns. This study highlights FLANN's potential for accurate Tair prediction and UHI analysis, enhancing urban thermal environment management.", 
    "abstract": "Frailty is common among older adults with chronic pain, and early identification is crucial in preventing adverse outcomes like falls, disability, and dementia. However, effective tools for identifying frailty in this population remain limited. This study aimed to explore frailty risk factors in older adults with chronic pain and to develop 9 machine learning models for frailty identification. The Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) method was used to explain the models. The Random Forest (RF) model performed best with 0.822 accuracy, 0.797 precision, and an AUC of 0.881. The variables in the RF model included: age, BMI, education level, pain duration, number of pain sites, pain level, depression, and Activity of Daily Living (ADL). Pain level, depression, and ADL were the 3 most important variables in the RF model. This model helps healthcare providers to identify frailty early, enabling timely interventions to improve patient outcomes and promote healthy aging.", 
    "abstract": "Underground coal fires pose significant environmental and health risks due to releasing CO\nBy leveraging the power of advanced machine learning schemes and experimental approaches, this research aims to provide valuable insights into CO\nThe study involves the collection of an experimental dataset specific to underground coal fire areas, encompassing various parameters related to CO\nThe NGRB model yields the best predictive performances with R", 
    "abstract": "The differential diagnosis between iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and thalassemia trait (TT) remains a significant clinical challenge. This study aimed to develop a machine learning-based multi-class model to differentiate among Microcytic-TT(TT with low mean corpuscular volume), Normocytic-TT (TT with normal mean corpuscular volume), IDA, and healthy individuals.\nA comprehensive dataset comprising 1,819 individuals was analyzed using six distinct machine learning algorithms. The eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) algorithm was ultimately selected to construct the MultiThal-Classifier (M-THAL) model. SMOTENC (Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique for Nominal and Continuous features) was employed to address data imbalance. Model performance was evaluated using various metrics, and SHAP values were applied to interpret the model's predictions.Additionally, external validation was conducted to assess the model's robustness and generalizability.\nAfter performing 1000 bootstrap resamples of the test set, the average performance metrics of M-THAL and the 95\u00a0% confidence interval(CI) were as follows, sensitivity 90.27\u00a0% (95\u00a0% CI: 84.88-95.26), specificity 97.87\u00a0% (95% CI: 97.10-98.55), PPV 93.42\u00a0% (95\u00a0% CI: 89.34-96.48), NPV 97.82% (95\u00a0% CI: 97.00-98.53), F1-score 91.50\u00a0% (95% CI: 87.29-95.34), Youden's index 88.15\u00a0% (95\u00a0% CI: 82.33-93.70), accuracy 97.06\u00a0% (95% CI: 96.06-97.99), and AUC 94.07\u00a0% (95\u00a0% CI: 91.17-96.84).Feature importance analysis identified mean corpuscular volume(MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin(MCH), red cell distribution width - standard deviation(RDW-SD), and hemoglobin (HGB) were identified as the most important features. External validation confirmed the model's robustness and generalizability.\nThe M-THAL effectively distinguishes Normocytic-TT, Microcytic-TT, IDA, and healthy individuals using hematological parameters, offers a rapid and cost-effective screening tool that can be readily implemented in diverse healthcare settings.", 
    "abstract": "The fate of cells is regulated by biochemical reactions taking place inside of them, known as intracellular pathways. Cells display a variety of characteristics related to their shape, structure and contained fluid, which influences the diffusion of proteins and their interactions. To gain insights into the spatial effects shaping intracellular regulation, we apply machine learning (ML) to explore a previously developed spatial model of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. The model describes the reactions between molecular species inside of cells following the transient activation of EGF receptors. To train our ML models, we conduct 10,000 numerical simulations in parallel where we calculate the cumulative activation of molecules and transcription factors under various conditions such as different diffusion speeds, inactivation rates, and cell structures. We take advantage of the low computational cost of ML algorithms to investigate the effects of cell and nucleus sizes, the diffusion speed of proteins, and the inactivation rate of the Ras molecules on the activation strength of transcription factors. Our results suggest that the predictions by both neural networks and random forests yielded minimal mean square error (MSEs), while linear generalized models displayed a significant larger MSE. The exploration of the surrogate models has shown that smaller cell and nucleus radii as well, larger diffusion coefficients, and reduced inactivation rates increase the activation of transcription factors. These results are confirmed by numerical simulations. Our ML algorithms can be readily incorporated within multiscale models of tumor growth to embed the spatial effects regulating intracellular pathways, enabling the use of complex cell models within multiscale models while reducing the computational cost.", 
    "abstract": "The safety and health of food products are essential in the food industry, and the risk of contamination from various contaminants must be evaluated. Exposure to HMs from the environment (especially food) causes various adverse effects on the body and increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD).\nVolunteers in the study comprised both healthy individuals and those with CVD. Patients were chosen using a cohort database of CVD individuals. A random choice of samples was conducted. Medical information (individuals with CVD) related to the participants was obtained from the Hoveyzeh Cohort Study Center. CVD-HM relationships were assessed using various machine-learning techniques.\nBased on the results of the GAM statistics approach, the baseline levels (\u03b2) of As, Cd, and Cr in rice have been calculated to be 1.05, 1.19, and 1.11, respectively. Based on the investigation's results, rice acts as a mediator between high-magnitude actions and the prevalence of CVD. Eating rice increases the probability of CVD by 0.18 and raises As eating by 0.494. The results showed that rice consumption in the research area is not associated with non-carcinogenic and carcinogenic risk (CRs and ILCRs for both categories were less than 1\u221710\nThere was neither a carcinogenic nor non-carcinogenic threat to adults or children and many hazardous HMs existed at the accepted thresholds. A notable relationship was seen between rice contaminated with HM and CVD.", 
    "abstract": "A graph learning [Binarized Attributed Network Embedding (BANE)] model enhances the single-target and multi-target prediction performances of random forest and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) by learning complex interrelationships between cultivation parameters of Porphyridium. The BANE-XGBoost has the best prediction performance (train R", 
    "abstract": "Graduate students face higher depression rates worldwide, which were further exacerbated during the COVID-19 pandemic. This study employed a machine learning approach to predict depressive symptoms using academic-related stressors.\nWe surveyed students across four graduate programs at a Federal University in Brazil between October 15, 2021, and March 26, 2022, when most activities were restricted to taking place online due to the pandemic. Through an online self-reported screening, participants rated ten academic stressors and completed the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Machine learning analysis tested whether the stressors would predict depressive symptoms. Gender, age, and race and ethnicity were used as covariates in the predictive model.\nParticipants (n=172), 67.4% women, mean age: 28.0 (SD: 4.53) fully completed the online questionnaires. The machine learning approach, employing an epsilon-insensitive support vector regression (\u0190-SVR) with a k-fold (k=5) cross-validation strategy, effectively predicted depressive symptoms (r=0.51; R\nThis study highlights the vulnerability of graduate students to depressive symptoms caused by academic-related stressors during the COVID-19 pandemic through an artificial intelligence methodology. These findings have the potential to guide policy development to create intervention programs and public health initiatives targeted towards graduate students.", 
    "abstract": "Background and objective The objective is to develop a model that predicts vital status six months after fracture as accurately as possible. For this purpose we will use five different data sources obtained through the National Hip Fracture Registry, the Health Management Unit and the Economic Management Department. Material and methods The study population is a cohort of patients over 74 years of age who suffered a hip fracture between May 2020 and December 2022. A warehouse is created from five different data sources with the necessary variables. An analysis of missing values and outliers as well as unbalanced classes of the target variable (\u00abvital status\u00bb) is performed. Fourteen different algorithmic models are trained with the training. The model with the best performance is selected and a fine tuning is performed. Finally, the performance of the selected model is analyzed with test data. Results A data warehouse is created with 502 patients and 144 variables. The best performing model is Linear Regression. Sixteen of the 24 cases of deceased patients are classified as live, and 14 live patients are classified as deceased. A sensitivity of 31%, an accuracy of 34% and an area under the curve of 0.65 is achieved. Conclusions We have not been able to generate a model for the prediction of six-month survival in the current cohort. However, we believe that the method used for the generation of algorithms based on machine learning can serve as a reference for future works.", 
    "abstract": "A quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) study was conducted on 313 pesticides to predict their acute toxicity to Sheepshead minnow (Cyprinodon variegatus) by using DRAGON descriptors. Essentials accounting for a reliable model were all considered carefully, giving full consideration to the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) principles for QSAR acceptability in regulation during the model construction and assessment process. Nine variables were selected through the forward stepwise regression method and used as inputs to construct both linear and nonlinear models. The obtained models were validated internally and externally. Generally, machine learning-based methods, namely support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), and projection pursuit regression (PPR), perform better than the multiple linear regression (MLR) model. The statistical results (R", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to assess the e-health literacy and foresights to global health challenges of nursing students during the COVID19 restrictions.\nAs the healthcare environment becomes more digitalized, understanding how nursing students perceive and prepare for global health challenges during the COVID19 restrictions and e-health literacy is crucial for customizing educational strategies to enhance their capabilities.\nA descriptive and correlational study design was employed.\nThe study included 310 nursing students from six universities in Istanbul, Turkey, encompassing both state and foundation institutions. Data were collected via online surveys, including an Information Form, a Foresight Form for Global Health Challenges and an E-Health Literacy Scale. The study extended beyond conventional statistical analysis by incorporating a tree-based ML model, specifically a Random Forest classifier, to identify complex patterns and relationships affecting e-health literacy and global health perceptions.\nThe analysis indicated that e-health literacy levels among nursing students are significantly shaped by their academic year, participation in global health courses and engagement with international health organizations. ML techniques pinpointed the ability to discern high-quality online health resources as a pivotal skill, emphasizing the need for nursing curricula to focus on advanced critical evaluation skills.\nThe findings stress the necessity of integrating critical evaluation and information-seeking skills into nursing education to equip students for the complexities of a globalized health landscape.", 
    "abstract": "Effectively capturing the risk of air pollution and informing residents is vital to public health. The widely used Air Quality Index (AQI) has been criticized for failing to accurately represent the non-threshold linear relationship between air pollution and health outcomes. Although the Air Quality Health Index (AQHI) was developed to address these limitations, it lacks comprehensive construction criteria. This work proposed a novel construction and prediction strategy of AQHI using machine learning methods. Our RF-Alasso-QGC method integrated Random Forest (RF), Adaptive Lasso (Alasso), and Quantile-based G-Computation (QGC) for effective pollutant selection and AQHI construction. The RF-Alasso method excluded CO, while identified PM", 
    "abstract": "Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) represents a significant global health burden, necessitating advanced prognostic tools for improved patient management. RNA modifications (m6A, m1A, m5C, m7G), and disulfidptosis, a novel cell death mechanism, have emerged as promising biomarkers and therapeutic targets in cancer.\nWe systematically compiled disulfidptosis-correlated genes and RNA modification-related genes from existing literature. A novel disulfidptosis-correlated m6A/m1A/m5C/m7G riskscore was computed using integrated machine-learning algorithms. Transcriptomic data from TCGA and GEO databases were downloaded analyzed. Single-cell RNA-sequencing data from the TISCH database was processed using the Seurat package. Genes' protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the String database. Functional phenotype analysis was performed using GSVA, ClusterProfiler, and IOBR packages. Consensus clustering divided patients into two distinct groups. Drug sensitivity predictions were obtained from the GDSC1 database and predicted using the Oncopredict package.\nThe disulfidptosis-correlated m6A/m1A/m5C/m7G risk score effectively stratified LUAD patients into prognostically distinct groups, demonstrating superior predictive accuracy compared to conventional clinical parameters. Patients in different risk groups exhibited significant molecular and clinical differences. Subsequent analyses identified two molecular subtypes associated with RNA modification and disulfidptosis, revealing differences in immune infiltration and prognosis. Functional enrichment analyses highlighted pathways involving RNA modification and disulfidptosis, underscoring their roles in LUAD pathogenesis. Single-cell analysis revealed distinct features between high- and low-risk status cells.\nThis study introduces a novel disulfidptosis-correlated m6A/m1A/m5C/m7G risk score as a robust prognostic tool for LUAD, integrating insights from RNA modifications and cell death mechanisms. The risk score enhances prognostic stratification and identifies potential targets for personalized therapeutic strategies in LUAD. This comprehensive approach emphasizes the critical roles of RNA modifications and disulfidptosis in LUAD biology, paving the way for future research and clinical applications aimed at improving patient outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "Microbial infections pose a substantial global health challenge, particularly impacting immunocompromised individuals and exacerbating the issue of antimicrobial resistance (AMR). High virulence of pathogens can lead to severe infections and prolonged antimicrobial treatment, increasing the risk of developing resistant strains. Integrating machine-learning (ML) with DNA sequencing technologies offers potential solutions by enhancing microbial identification, virulence assessment, and antimicrobial susceptibility evaluation. This review explores recent advancements in these integrated approaches, addressing current limitations and identifying gaps in the literature. A comprehensive literature search was conducted across databases including PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and IEEE Xplore, covering publications from January 2014 to June 2024. Using a detailed Boolean search string, relevant studies focusing on ML applications in microorganism identification, antimicrobial susceptibility testing, and microbial virulence were included. The screening process involved a two-stage review of titles, abstracts, and full texts, with data extraction and critical appraisal performed using the QIAO tool. Data were analyzed through narrative synthesis to identify common themes and innovations. Out of 1,650 initially identified records, 19 studies met the inclusion criteria. These studies primarily focused on AMR, with additional research on microbial virulence and identification. Machine learning algorithms such as Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, and Convolutional Neural Networks, combined with DNA sequencing techniques like Whole Genome Sequencing and Metagenomic Sequencing, demonstrated significant advancements in predictive accuracy and efficiency. High-quality studies achieved impressive performance metrics, including F1-scores up to 0.88 and AUC scores up to 0.96. The integration of ML and DNA sequencing technologies has significantly enhanced microbial analysis, improving the identification of pathogens, assessment of virulence, and evaluation of antimicrobial susceptibility. Despite advancements, challenges such as data quality, high costs, and model interpretability persist. This review highlights the need for continued innovation and provides recommendations for future research to address these limitations and improve disease management and public health strategies. The systematic review is registered with PROSPERO (CRD42024571347).", 
    "abstract": "Gastric cancer ranks as one of the top five deadliest cancers worldwide and is often diagnosed at late stages. Analysis of saliva may provide a non-invasive approach for detection of malignancies in organs associated with the oral cavity. This research aims to analyze salivary microRNA expression together with clinical and demographic features with the aim of diagnosing gastric cancer.\nThe study included 19 patients with early-stage gastric cancer and 19 healthy controls. Saliva samples were collected and processed for RNA isolation. Salivary expression of miR-223-3p and miR-21-5p were measured using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to evaluate the accuracy of diagnostic models. Machine learning algorithms, multiple logistic regression, and principal component analysis (PCA) were used to assess the predictive power of miRNAs in conjunction with clinical-demographic features.\nSignificant upregulation of miR-223-3p and downregulation of miR-21-5p in saliva were observed in patients with gastric cancer. The area under ROC curve (AUC) values for salivary miR-21-5p, salivary miR-223-3p, and their multiple logistic regression were determined to be 0.723, 0.791, and 0.850, respectively. The AUC for multiple logistic regression model was 0.919. The PCA model led to the highest diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) of 134.33 (sensitivity\u2009=\u20090.785, specificity\u2009=\u20091.00, AUC\u2009=\u2009903). Application of machine learning methods, and in particular a random forest algorithm, showed high accuracy in diagnosing patients with gastric cancer (sensitivity\u2009=\u20091.00, specificity\u2009=\u20090.857, AUC\u2009=\u20090.93).\nThe application of validated salivary diagnostics in clinical practice could help facilitate earlier diagnosis of gastric cancer and improve medical outcome. Expression of miR-21 and miR-223-3p in saliva together with clinical and demographic features, appears promising in screening for GC.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Nicotine gum products from brands like Lucy and Rogue are relatively new arrivals to the tobacco marketplace. While studies of correlates of nicotine gum use are in their nascent stage, data from social media can be used to stay abreast of user experiences with novel tobacco products. This study leveraged machine learning to identify topics of Twitter posts about nicotine gum from the year 2022.\nTwitter data was collected using the Twitter Application Programming Interface (API), with search terms \"nicotine\" AND \"gum\" OR \"nic\" AND \"gum\". 16,940 tweets from 10,353 unique users were included in the analysis. Topic modeling with Top2Vec was used to identify topics and a string search of popular brands and flavors was also conducted.\nEight distinct topics were identified. \nThe goal of identifying topics in nicotine gum-related conversations is to better understand the public's perceptions and experiences with nicotine gum. These findings may be used to inform survey-based research, policy targets, and health communication campaigns.", 
    "abstract": "Radix Bupleuri has been widely used for its plentiful pharmacological effects. But it is hard to evaluate their safety and efficacy because the concentrations of components are tightly affected by the surrounding environment. Thus, Radix Bupleuri samples from different regions and varieties were collected. Based on the experimental and computational Raman spectrum, machine learning is emphasized for certain obscured characteristics; for example, linear discriminant analysis (LDA), support vector machine (SVM), eXtreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) and light gradient boosting machine (LightGBM).\nAfter dimension reduction by LDA, models of SVM, XGBoost and LightGBM were trained for classification and regression prediction of Bupleurum production regions. Support vector classifiers achieved the best accuracy of 98% and an F1 score above 0.96 on the test set. Support vector regression has a good fitting performance with an R\nAmong these machine learning models, the typical LDA-SVM models, consistent with the high-performance liquid chromatography results, demonstrate great performance and stability. We envision that this rapid classification and regression technique can be extended to predictions for other herbs. \u00a9 2024 Society of Chemical Industry.", 
    "abstract": "Aboveground biomass (AGB) is a critical indicator for monitoring the crop growth status and predicting yields. UAV remote sensing technology offers an efficient and non-destructive method for collecting crop information in small-scale agricultural fields. High-resolution hyperspectral images provide abundant spectral-textural information, but whether they can enhance the accuracy of crop biomass estimations remains subject to further investigation. This study evaluates the predictability of winter canola AGB by integrating the narrowband spectra and texture features from UAV hyperspectral images. Specifically, narrowband spectra and vegetation indices were extracted from the hyperspectral images. The Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM) method was employed to compute texture indices. Correlation analysis and autocorrelation analysis were utilized to determine the final spectral feature scheme, texture feature scheme, and spectral-texture feature scheme. Subsequently, machine learning algorithms were applied to develop estimation models for winter canola biomass. The results indicate: (1) For spectra features, narrow-bands at 450~510 nm, 680~738 nm, 910~940 nm wavelength, as well as vegetation indices containing red-edge narrow-bands, showed outstanding performance with correlation coefficients ranging from 0.49 to 0.65; For texture features, narrow-band texture parameters CON, DIS, ENT, ASM, and vegetation index texture parameter COR demonstrated significant performance, with correlation coefficients between 0.65 and 0.72; (2) The Adaboost model using the spectra-texture feature scheme exhibited the best performance in estimating winter canola biomass (R", 
    "abstract": "The valorization and dissolution of lignin using ionic liquids (ILs) is critical for developing sustainable biorefineries and a circular bioeconomy. This review aims to critically assess the current state of computational and machine learning methods for understanding and optimizing IL-based lignin dissolution and valorization processes reported since 2022. The paper examines various computational approaches, from quantum chemistry to machine learning, highlighting their strengths, limitations, and recent advances in predicting and optimizing lignin-IL interactions. Key themes include the challenges in accurately modeling lignin's complex structure, the development of efficient screening methodologies for ionic liquids to enhance lignin dissolution and valorization processes, and the integration of machine learning with quantum calculations. These computational advances will drive progress in IL-based lignin valorization by providing deeper molecular-level insights and facilitating the rapid screening of novel IL-lignin systems.", 
    "abstract": "Drug substances in water bodies and groundwater have become a significant threat to the surrounding environment. This study focuses on the ability of the nanoporous carbon materials to remove ciprofloxacin from aqueous solutions under specific experimental conditions and on the development of the mathematical model that would allow describing the molecular interactions of the adsorption process and calculating the adsorption capacity of the material. Thus, based on the adsorption measurements of the 87 carbon materials, it was found that, depending on the porosity and pore size distribution, adsorption capacity values varied between 55 and 495 mg g", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the effect of single-missense mutations on protein stability is crucial for clinical decision-making and therapeutic development. The impact of these mutations on protein stability and 3D structure remains underexplored. Here, we developed a program to investigate the relationship between pathogenic mutations with protein unfolding and compared seven machine learning (ML) models to predict the clinical significance of single-missense mutations with unknown impacts, based on protein stability parameters. We analyzed seven proteins associated with ocular disease-causing genes. The program revealed an R-squared value of 0.846 using Decision Tree Regression between pathogenic mutations and decreased protein stability, with 96.20% of pathogenic mutations in RPE65 leading to protein instability. Among the ML models, Random Forest achieved the highest AUC (0.922) and PR AUC (0.879) in predicting the clinical significance of mutations with unknown effects. Our findings indicate that most pathogenic mutations affecting protein stability occur in alpha-helices, beta-pleated sheets, and active sites. This study suggests that protein stability can serve as a valuable parameter for interpreting the clinical significance of single-missense mutations in ocular proteins.", 
    "abstract": "Reliable predictors of long-term all-cause mortality are needed for middle-aged and older populations. Previous metabolomics mortality studies have limitations: a low number of participants and metabolites measured, measurements mainly using nuclear magnetic spectroscopy, and the use only of conventional statistical methods. To overcome these challenges, we applied liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and measured >1000 metabolites in the METSIM study including 10,197 men. We applied the machine learning approach together with conventional statistical methods to identify metabolites associated with all-cause mortality. The three independent machine learning methods (logistic regression, XGBoost, and Welch's ", 
    "abstract": "Prostate cancer (PCa) poses a significant global health challenge, particularly due to its progression into aggressive forms like neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC). This study developed and validated a stemness-associated gene signature using advanced machine learning techniques, including Random Forest and Lasso regression, applied to large-scale transcriptomic datasets. The resulting seven-gene signature (", 
    "abstract": "Methane (CH", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "This study examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on abdominal trauma management by comparing pre-pandemic (17 February 2018-26 February 2020) and pandemic periods (27 February 2020-7 March 2022).\nAnalyzing data from 118 patients at the Emergency County Clinical Hospital of Craiova, we identified significant shifts in clinical practices affecting patient outcomes.\nDuring the pandemic, a moderate increase in surgical interventions for specific abdominal traumas indicated the effective adaptation of the medical system. Prioritizing critical cases and deferring non-urgent procedures optimized limited resources. Demographic and clinical factors-including age, sex, body mass index (BMI), and red cell distribution width (RDW)-significantly influenced the hospitalization duration and recovery outcomes. Gender disparities in mortality lessened during the pandemic, possibly due to standardized interventions and the physiological effects of SARS-CoV-2. The link between occupation and obesity highlighted how work environments impact trauma severity, especially as lifestyle changes affect BMI. While age remained a major predictor of mortality, its influence slightly decreased, potentially due to improved protocols for elderly patients. RDW emerged as an important prognostic marker for disease severity and mortality risk.\nEmploying advanced co-occurrence analysis enhanced with machine learning, we uncovered complex relationships between clinical and demographic variables often overlooked by traditional methods. This innovative approach provided deeper insights into the collective impact of various factors on patient outcomes. Our findings demonstrate the healthcare system's rapid adaptations during the pandemic and offer critical insights for optimizing medical strategies and developing personalized interventions in global crises.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Predicting patient readmission is an important task for healthcare risk management, as it can help prevent adverse events, reduce costs, and improve patient outcomes. In this paper, we compare various conventional machine learning models and deep learning models on a multimodal dataset of electronic discharge records from an Irish acute hospital.\nWe evaluate the effectiveness of several widely used machine learning models that leverage patient demographics, historical hospitalization records, and clinical diagnosis codes to forecast future clinical risks. Our work focuses on addressing two key challenges in the medical fields, data imbalance and the variety of data types, in order to boost the performance of machine learning algorithms. Furthermore, we also employ SHapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) value visualization to interpret the model predictions and identify both the key data features and disease codes associated with readmission risks, identifying a specific set of diagnosis codes that are significant predictors of readmission within 30 days.\nThrough extensive benchmarking and the application of a variety of feature engineering techniques, we successfully improved the area under the curve (AUROC) score from 0.628 to 0.7 across our models on the test dataset. We also revealed that specific diagnoses, including cancer, COPD, and certain social factors, are significant predictors of 30-day readmission risk. Conversely, bacterial carrier status appeared to have minimal impact due to lower case frequencies.\nOur study demonstrates how we effectively utilize routinely collected hospital data to forecast patient readmission through the use of conventional machine learning while applying explainable AI techniques to explore the correlation between data features and patient readmission rate.", 
    "abstract": "Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a severe disease with poor prognosis and high mortality, lacking simple and sensitive diagnostic biomarkers in clinical practice. This study aims to identify novel diagnostic biomarkers for PAH using genomics research.\nWe conducted a comprehensive analysis of a large transcriptome dataset, including PAH and inflammatory response genes (IRGs), integrated with 113 machine learning models to assess diagnostic potential. We developed a clinical diagnostic model based on hub genes, evaluating their effectiveness through calibration curves, clinical decision curves, and ROC curves. An animal model of PAH was also established to validate hub gene expression patterns.\nAmong the 113 machine learning algorithms, the Lasso + LDA model achieved the highest AUC of 0.741. Differential expression profiles of hub genes CTGF, DDR2, FGFR2, MYH10, and YAP1 were observed between the PAH and normal control groups. A diagnostic model utilizing these hub genes was developed, showing high accuracy with an AUC of 0.87. MYH10 demonstrated the most favorable diagnostic performance with an AUC of 0.8. Animal experiments confirmed the differential expression of CTGF, DDR2, FGFR2, MYH10, and YAP1 between the PAH and control groups (", 
    "abstract": "Atrial fibrillation (AF) complicates the management of acute ischemic stroke (AIS), necessitating precise predictive models to enhance clinical outcomes. This meta-analysis evaluates the efficacy of machine learning (ML) models in three key areas: stroke prognosis in AF patients, stroke prediction in AF patients, and AF prediction in stroke patients. The study aims to assess the accuracy and variability of ML models in forecasting AIS outcomes and detecting AF in stroke patients, while exploring the clinical benefits and limitations of integrating these models into practice.\nWe conducted a systematic search of PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane databases up to June 2024, selecting studies that evaluated ML accuracy in stroke prognosis and prediction in AF patients and AF prediction in stroke patients. Data extraction and quality assessment were performed independently by two reviewers, with random-effects modeling applied to estimate pooled accuracy metrics.\nThe meta-analysis included twenty-four studies comprising 7,391,645 patients, categorized into groups for stroke prognosis in AF patients (eight studies), stroke prediction in AF patients (thirteen studies), and AF prediction in stroke patients (three studies). The pooled AUROC was 0.79 for stroke prognosis and 0.68 for stroke prediction in AF, with higher accuracy noted in short-term predictions. The mean AUROC across studies was 0.75, with models such as Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB) and Random Forest (RF) showing superior performance. For stroke prognosis in AF, the mean AUROC was 0.78, whereas stroke prediction yielded a mean AUROC of 0.73. AF prediction post-stroke had an average AUROC of 0.75. These findings indicate moderate predictive capability of ML models, underscoring the need for further refinement and standardization. The absence of comprehensive sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) metrics limited the ability to conduct full meta-analytic modeling.\nWhile ML models demonstrate potential for enhancing stroke prognosis and AF prediction, they have yet to meet the clinical standards required for widespread adoption. Future efforts should focus on refining these models and validating them across diverse populations to improve their clinical utility.", 
    "abstract": "Due to the heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the underlying pathogenic mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Oligodendrocyte (OL) damage and myelin degeneration are prevalent features of AD pathology. When oligodendrocytes are subjected to amyloid-beta (A\u03b2) toxicity, this damage compromises the structural integrity of myelin and results in a reduction of myelin-associated proteins. Consequently, the impairment of myelin integrity leads to a slowdown or cessation of nerve signal transmission, ultimately contributing to cognitive dysfunction and the progression of AD. Consequently, elucidating the relationship between oligodendrocytes and AD from the perspective of oligodendrocytes is instrumental in advancing our understanding of the pathogenesis of AD.\nHere, an attempt is made in this study to identify oligodendrocyte-related biomarkers of AD.\nAD datasets were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and used for consensus clustering to identify subclasses. Hub genes were identified through differentially expressed genes (DEGs) analysis and oligodendrocyte gene set enrichment. Immune infiltration analysis was conducted using the CIBERSORT method. Signature genes were identified using machine learning algorithms and logistic regression. A diagnostic nomogram for predicting AD was developed and validated using external datasets and an AD model. A small molecular compound was identified using the eXtreme Sum algorithm.\n46 genes were found to be significantly correlated with AD progression by examining the overlap between DEGs and oligodendrocyte genes. Two subclasses of AD, Cluster A, and Cluster B, were identified, and 9 signature genes were identified using a machine learning algorithm to construct a nomogram. Enrichment analysis showed that 9 genes are involved in apoptosis and neuronal development. Immune infiltration analysis found differences in immune cell presence between AD patients and controls. External datasets and RT-qPCR verification showed variation in signature genes between AD patients and controls. Five small molecular compounds were predicted.\nIt was found that 9 oligodendrocyte genes can be used to create a diagnostic tool for AD, which could help in developing new treatments.", 
    "abstract": "This study examined the use of machine learning in detecting deception among 210 individuals reporting homicides or missing persons to 911. The sample included an equal number of false allegation callers (FAC) and true report callers (TRC) identified through case adjudication. Independent coders, unaware of callers' deception, analyzed each 911 call using 86 behavioral cues. Using the random forest model with k-fold cross-validation and repeated sampling, the study achieved an accuracy rate of 68.2% for all 911 calls, with sensitivity and specificity at 68.7% and 67.7%, respectively. For homicide reports, accuracy was higher at 71.2%, with a sensitivity of 77.3% but slightly lower specificity at 65.0%. In contrast, accuracy decreased to 61.4% for missing person reports, with a sensitivity of 49.1% and notably higher specificity at 73.6%. Beyond accuracy, key cues distinguishing FACs from TRCs were identified and included cues like \"Blames others,\" \"Is self-dramatizing,\" and \"Is uncertain and insecure.\"", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has a significant impact on the global population, particularly on individuals with chronic kidney disease (CKD). COVID-19 patients with CKD will face a considerably higher risk of mortality than the general population. This study developed a predictive model for assessing mortality in COVID-19-affected CKD patients, providing personalized risk prediction to optimize clinical management and reduce mortality rates. We developed machine learning algorithms to analyze 219 patients' clinical laboratory test data retrospectively. The performance of each model was assessed using a calibration curve, decision curve analysis, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. It was found that the LightGBM model showed the most satisfied performance, with an area under the ROC curve of 0.833, sensitivity of 0.952, and specificity of 0.714. Prealbumin, neutrophil percent, respiratory index in arterial blood, half-saturated pressure of oxygen, carbon dioxide in serum, glucose, neutrophil count, and uric acid were the top 8 significant variables in the prediction model. Validation by 46 patients demonstrated acceptable accuracy. This model can serve as a powerful tool for screening CKD patients at high risk of COVID-19-related mortality and providing decision support for clinical staff, enabling efficient allocation of resources, and facilitating timely and targeted management for those who need the relevant interference urgently.", 
    "abstract": "Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in older people in developed countries. It has been suggested that heavy metal exposure may be associated with the development of AMD, but most studies have focused on the effects of a single metal with traditional methods. In this study, we analyzed the relationship between 13 urinary heavy metal concentrations and AMD using NHANES data between 2005 and 2008. We constructed and compared 11 machine learning models to identify the best model for predicting AMD risk. We further interpreted the models by Permutation Feature Importance (PFI), Partial Dependence Plot (PDP) analysis, and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis. 216 AMD patients out of 2380 participants. The random forest (RF) model performed optimally in predicting the risk of AMD, with an AUC value of 0.970. PFI analyses revealed that age and urinary cadmium (Cd) were the main factors influencing the risk of AMD. SHAP analyses further confirmed the significance of Cd concentration in predicting the risk of AMD, and we revealed a significant interaction with significant interaction of race. Our study firstly explored the relationship between heavy metal exposure levels and AMD based on machine learning techniques, found that urinary Cd concentration had the greatest impact on AMD, and revealed the superior predictive performance of machine learning methods. Furthermore, our study provided a new perspective for early screening and intervention of AMD.", 
    "abstract": "This paper presents a non-linear finite element model (FEM) to predict the load-carrying capacity of three different configurations of elliptical concrete-filled steel tubular (CFST) short columns: double steel tubes with sandwich concrete (CFDST), double steel tubes with sandwich concrete and concrete inside the inner steel tube, and a single outer steel tube with sandwich concrete. Then, a parametric and analytical study was performed to explore the influence of geometric and material parameters on the load-carrying capacity of elliptical CFST short columns. Furthermore, the current study investigates the effectiveness of machine learning (ML) techniques in predicting the load-carrying capacity of elliptical CFST short columns. These techniques include Support Vector Regressor (SVR), Random Forest Regressor (RFR), Gradient Boosting Regressor (GBR), XGBoost Regressor (XGBR), MLP Regressor (MLPR), K-nearest Neighbours Regressor (KNNR), and Naive Bayes Regressor (NBR). ML models accuracy is assessed by comparing their predictions with FE results. Among the models, GBR and XGBR exhibited outstanding results with high test R", 
    "abstract": "mRNA degradation is a central process that affects all gene expression levels, though it remains challenging to predict the stability of a mRNA from its sequence, due to the many coupled interactions that control degradation rate. Here, we carried out massively parallel kinetic decay measurements on over 50,000 bacterial mRNAs, using a learn-by-design approach to develop and validate a predictive sequence-to-function model of mRNA stability. mRNAs were designed to systematically vary translation rates, secondary structures, sequence compositions, G-quadruplexes, i-motifs, and RppH activity, resulting in mRNA half-lives from about 20\u2009seconds to 20\u2009minutes. We combined biophysical models and machine learning to develop steady-state and kinetic decay models of mRNA stability with high accuracy and generalizability, utilizing transcription rate models to identify mRNA isoforms and translation rate models to calculate ribosome protection. Overall, the developed model quantifies the key interactions that collectively control mRNA stability in bacterial operons and predicts how changing mRNA sequence alters mRNA stability, which is important when studying and engineering bacterial genetic systems.", 
    "abstract": "The practical development of Li\u2009|\u2009|S batteries is hindered by the slow kinetics of polysulfides conversion reactions during cycling. To circumvent this limitation, researchers suggested the use of transition metal-based electrocatalytic materials in the sulfur-based positive electrode. However, the atomic-level interactions among multiple electrocatalytic sites are not fully understood. Here, to improve the understanding of electrocatalytic sites, we propose a multi-view machine-learned framework to evaluate electrocatalyst features using limited datasets and intrinsic factors, such as corrected d orbital properties. Via physicochemical characterizations and theoretical calculations, we demonstrate that orbital coupling among sites induces shifts in band centers and alterations in the spin state, thus influencing interactions with polysulfides and resulting in diverse Li-S bond breaking and lithium migration barriers. Using a carbon-coated Fe/Co electrocatalyst (synthesized using recycled Li-ion battery electrodes as raw materials) at the positive electrode of a Li\u2009|\u2009|S pouch cell with high sulfur loading and lean electrolyte conditions, we report an initial specific energy of 436\u2009Wh\u2009kg", 
    "abstract": "Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Approximately one-third of patients with stroke experienced a second stroke. This study investigates the predictive value of machine learning (ML) algorithms for recurrent stroke.\nThis study was prepared according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guideline. PubMed, Scopus, Embase, and Web of Science (WOS) were searched until January 1, 2024. The quality assessment of studies was conducted using the QUADAS-2 tool. The diagnostic meta-analysis was conducted to calculate the pooled sensitivity, specificity, diagnostic accuracy, positive and negative diagnostic likelihood ratio (DLR), diagnostic accuracy, diagnostic odds ratio (DOR), and area under of the curve (AUC) by the MIDAS package in STATA V.17.\nTwelve studies, comprising 24,350 individuals, were included. The meta-analysis revealed a sensitivity of 71% (95% CI 0.64-0.78) and a specificity of 88% (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.76-0.95). Positive and negative DLR were 5.93 (95% CI 3.05-11.55) and 0.33 (95% CI 0.28-0.39), respectively. The diagnostic accuracy and DOR was 2.89 (95% CI 2.32-3.46) and 18.04 (95% CI 10.21-31.87), respectively. The summary ROC curve indicated an AUC of 0.82 (95% CI 0.78-0.85).\nML demonstrates promise in predicting recurrent strokes, with moderate to high sensitivity and specificity. However, the high heterogeneity observed underscores the need for standardized approaches and further research to enhance the reliability and generalizability of these models. ML-based recurrent stroke prediction can potentially augment clinical decision-making and improve patient outcomes by identifying high-risk patients.", 
    "abstract": "Every year, an estimated 1.5 million people worldwide contract Hepatitis C, a significant contributor to liver problems. Although many studies have explored machine learning's potential to predict antiviral peptides, very few have addressed the problem of predicting peptides against specific viruses such as Hepatitis C. In this study, we demonstrate the application and fine-tuning of machine learning (ML) algorithms to predict peptides that are effective against Hepatitis C virus (HCV). We developed a fine-tuned and explainable ML model that harnesses the amino acid sequence of a peptide to predict its anti-hepatitis C potential. Specifically, features were computed based on sequence and physicochemical properties. The feature selection was performed using a combined strategy of mutual information and variance inflation factor. This facilitated the removal of redundant and multicollinear features, enhancing the model's generalizability in predicting anti-hepatitis C peptides (AHCPs). The model using the random forest algorithm produced the best performance with an accuracy of about 92%. The feature analysis highlights that the distributions of hydrophobicity, polarizability, coil-forming residues, frequency of glycine residues and the existence of dipeptide motifs VL, LV, and CC emerged as the key predictors for identifying AHCPs targeting different components of HCV. The developed model can be accessed through the Pred-AHCP web server, provided at http://tinyurl.com/web-Pred-AHCP. This resource facilitates the prediction and re-engineering of AHCPs for designing peptide-based therapeutics while also proposing an exploration of similar strategies for designing peptide inhibitors effective against other viruses. The developed ML model can also be used for validating peptide sequences generated using generative artificial intelligence methods for further optimization.", 
    "abstract": "Advancements in early detection of the disease, prognosis and the development of therapeutic strategies necessitate tumor-specific biomarkers. Despite continuous efforts, no molecular marker has been proven to be an effective therapeutic tool for the early detection of cancer. The study aims to determine diagnostic and prognostic signature genes that may be involved in cancer pathology and hence, may serve as molecular markers.\nEight candidate genes were selected based on our prior study of transcriptomic sequencing and validated in 100 matched pair samples of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). We further utilized machine learning approaches and examined the diagnostic presentation and predictive ability of the OSCC genes retrieved from publicly available The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database and compared with our results.\nWe conducted qPCR analysis to validate the expression of each gene and observed that each gene was present in the majority of OSCC samples. The predictive ability of selected genes was stable (with an average accuracy of 84%) across different classifiers. However, on validation with our dataset, it showed 75% accuracy, which might be because of the demographic variation of the samples.\nThe present research outlines cancer-associated molecular biomarkers that might eventually contribute to an enhanced prognosis of cancer patient by identifying novel therapeutic targets.", 
    "abstract": "To intelligently diagnose whether there is bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) in female with decent detrusor contraction ability by focusing on urodynamic study (UDS) data.\nWe retrospectively reviewed the UDS data of female patients during urination. Eleven easily accessible urinary flow indicators were calculated according to the UDS data of each patient during voiding period. Eight diagnosis models based on back propagation neural network with different input feature combination were constructed by analyzing the correlations between indicators and lower urinary tract dysfunction labels. Subsequently, the stability of diagnostic models was evaluated by five-fold cross-validation based on training data, while the performance was compared on test dataset.\nUDS data from 134 female patients with a median age of 51 years (range, 27-78 years) were selected for our study. Among them, 66 patients suffered BOO and the remaining were normal. Applying the 5-fold cross-validation method, the model with the best performance achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) value of 0.949\u00b10.060 using 9 UDS input features. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity for BOO diagnosis model in the testing process are 94.4%, 100%, and 89.3%, respectively.\nThe 9 significant indicators in UDS were employed to construct a diagnostic model of female BOO based on machine learning algorithm, which performs preferable classification accuracy and stability.", 
    "abstract": "Dysphonia is one of the more common complications following anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF). ACDF is the gold standard for treating degenerative cervical spine disorders, and identifying high-risk patients is therefore crucial.\nThis study aimed to evaluate different machine learning models to predict persistent dysphonia after ACDF.\nA retrospective review of the nationwide Swedish spine registry (Swespine) PATIENT SAMPLE: All adults in the Swespine registry who underwent elective ACDF between 2006 and 2020.\nThe primary outcome was self-reported dysphonia lasting at least one month after surgery. Predictive performance was assessed using discrimination and calibration metrics.\nPatients with missing dysphonia data at the one-year follow-up were excluded. Data preprocessing involved one-hot encoding categorical variables, scaling continuous variables, and imputing missing values. Four machine learning models (logistic regression, random forest (RF), gradient boosting, K-nearest neighbor) were employed. The models were trained and tested using an 80:20 data split and 5-fold cross-validation, with performance metrics guiding the selection of the best model for predicting persistent dysphonia.\nIn total, 2,708 were included in the study. Twelve key predictors were identified. Four machine learning models were tested, with the RF model achieving the best performance (AUC\u202f=\u202f0.794). The most significant predictors across models included preoperative NDI, EQ5D\nIn this study, machine learning models were employed to identify predictors of persistent dysphonia following ACDF. Among the models tested, the RF classifier demonstrated superior performance, with an AUC value of 0.790. The RF model identified NDI, EQ5D", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Many studies have confirmed that PM", 
    "abstract": "Based on operational data collected over 1.5 years from four full-scale dry anaerobic digesters used for kitchen food waste treatment, this study adopted eight typical machine learning algorithms to distinguish the best biogas prediction model and to develop a soft sensor based on the VFA/ALK ratio. Among all the eight tested models, the CatBoost (CB) algorithm demonstrated superior performance in terms of prediction accuracy and model fitting. Specifically, the CB model achieved a biogas production prediction accuracy (R", 
    "abstract": "Bloodstains found at a crime scene can help estimate the events that occurred during the crime. Reconstructing the crime scene by analyzing the bloodstain pattern contributes to understanding the bloody event. Therefore, it is essential to classify bloodstains through bloodstain pattern analysis (BPA) and accurately estimate the actions that took place at that time. In this study, we investigate the potential of using machine learning and deep learning to determine an action related to bloodstain data through the accessment of the corresponding bloodstain type by creating a prototype classification model. There are 14 types of bloodstain according to the classification system based on appearance. In this study, we test the classification potential of each bloodstain data for three bloodstain patterns such as Swing, Cessation, and Impact. Through experiments, it is shown that our prototype classification model for the selected bloodstains is developed and the accuracy of the resulting model is evaluated to be 80\u202f%.", 
    "abstract": "Intrinsically disordered proteins and regions (IDPs) are involved in vital biological processes. To understand the IDP function, often controlled by conformation, we need to find the link between sequence and conformation. We decode this link by integrating theory, simulation, and machine learning (ML) where sequence-dependent electrostatics is modeled analytically while nonelectrostatic interaction is extracted from simulations for many sequences and subsequently trained using ML. The resulting Hamiltonian, combining physics-based electrostatics and machine-learned nonelectrostatics, accurately predicts sequence-specific global and local measures of conformations beyond the original observable used from the simulation. This is in contrast to traditional ML approaches that train and predict a specific observable, not a Hamiltonian. Our formalism reproduces experimental measurements, predicts multiple conformational features directly from sequence with high throughput that will give insights into IDP design and evolution, and illustrates the broad utility of using physics-based ML to train unknown parts of a Hamiltonian, rather than a specific observable, in combination with known physics.", 
    "abstract": "the escalating influx of patients with temporomandibular disorders and the challenges associated with accurate diagnosis by non-specialized dental practitioners underscore the integration of artificial intelligence into the diagnostic process of temporomandibular disorders (TMD) as a potential solution to mitigate diagnostic disparities associated with this condition.\nIn this study, we evaluated a machine-learning model for classifying TMDs based on the International Classification of Orofacial Pain, using structured data.\nModel construction was performed by the exploration of a dataset comprising patient records from the repository of the Multidisciplinary Orofacial Pain Center (CEMDOR) affiliated with the Federal University of Santa Catarina. Diagnoses of TMD were categorized following the principles established by the International Classification of Orofacial Pain (ICOP-1). Two independent experiments were conducted using the decision tree technique to classify muscular or articular conditions. Both experiments uniformly adopted identical metrics to assess the developed model's performance and efficacy.\nThe classification model for joint pain showed a relevant potential for general practitioners, presenting 84% accuracy and f1-score of 0.85. Thus, myofascial pain was classified with 78% accuracy and an f1-score of 0.76. Both models used from 2 to 5 clinical variables to classify orofacial pain.\nThe use of decision tree-based machine learning holds significant support potential for TMD classification.", 
    "abstract": "Identifying the origins of biological traces is critical for the reconstruction of crime scenes in forensic investigations. Traditional methods for body fluid identification rely on chemical, enzymatic, immunological, and spectroscopic techniques, which can be sample-consuming and depend on simple color-change reactions. However, these methods have limitations when residual samples are insufficient after DNA extraction.\nThis study aimed to develop a method for body fluid identification by leveraging bacterial DNA profiling to overcome the limitations of the conventional approaches.\nBacterial profiles were determined by sequencing the hypervariable region of the 16\u00a0S rRNA gene,\u00a0using DNA metabarcoding of evidence collected from criminal cases. Amplicon sequence variants (ASVs) were analyzed to identify significant microbial patterns in different body fluid samples.\nThe bacterial profile-based method demonstrated high discriminatory power with a machine learning model trained using the na\u00efve Bayes algorithm, achieving an accuracy of over 98% in classifying samples into one of four body fluid types: blood, saliva, vaginal secretion, and mixture traces of vaginal secretions and semen.\nBacterial profiling enhances the accuracy and robustness of body fluid identification in forensic analysis, providing a valuable alternative to traditional methods by utilizing DNA and microbial community data despite the uncontrollable conditions. This approach offers significant improvements in the classification accuracy and practical applicability in forensic investigations.", 
    "abstract": "ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) is an effective technique for providing short-term mechanical support to the heart, lungs, or both. During ECMO treatment, the inflammatory response, particularly involving cytokines, plays a crucial role in pathophysiology. However, the potential effects of cytokines on patients receiving ECMO are not comprehensively understood.\nWe acquired three ECMO support datasets, namely two bulk and one single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), from the GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus) combined with hospital cohorts to investigate the expression pattern and potential biological processes of cytokine-related genes (CRGs) in patients under ECMO. Subsequently, machine learning approaches, including support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), modified Lasso penalized regression, extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), and artificial neural network (ANN), were applied to identify hub CRGs, thus developing a prediction model called CRG classifier. The predictive and prognostic performance of the model was comprehensively evaluated in GEO and hospital cohorts. Finally, we mechanistically analyzed the relationship between hub cytokines, immune cells, and pivotal molecular pathways.\nAnalyzing bulk and single-cell RNA-seq data revealed that most CRGs were significantly differentially expressed, the enrichment scores of cytokine and cytokine cytokine receptor (CCR) interaction were significantly higher during ECMO. Based on multiple machine learning algorithms, nine key CRGs (CCL2, CCL4, IFNG, IL1R2, IL20RB, IL31RA, IL4, IL7, and IL7R) were used to develop the CRG classifier. The CRG classifier exhibited excellent prognostic values (AUC > 0.85), serving as an independent risk factor. It performed better in predicting mortality and yielded a larger net benefit than other clinical features in GEO and hospital cohorts. Additionally, IL1R2, CCL4, and IL7R were predominantly expressed in monocytes, NK cells, and T cells, respectively. Their expression was significantly positively correlated with the relative abundance of corresponding immune cells. Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) revealed that parainflammation, complement and coagulation cascades, and IL6/JAK/STAT3 signaling were significantly enriched in the subgroup that died after receiving ECMO. Spearman correlation analyses and Mantel tests revealed that the expression of hub cytokines (IL1R2, CCL4, and IL7R) and pivotal molecular pathways scores (complement and coagulation cascades, IL6/JAK/STAT3 signaling, and parainflammation) were closely related.\nA predictive model (CRG classifier) comprising nine CRGs based on multiple machine learning algorithms was constructed, potentially assisting clinicians in guiding individualized ECMO treatment. Additionally, elucidating the underlying mechanistic pathways of cytokines during ECMO will provide new insights into its treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Crohn's disease continues to be a major component of inflammatory bowel disease with increasing incidence and prevalence. Increasing publications of surgery in Crohn's disease have significantly expanded the research scope. The aim of this study is to characterize main topics and a full landscape of surgery in Crohn's disease.\nStudies of surgery in Crohn's disease from 2000 to 2020 were screened and retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection database. Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), one of machine-learning algorithms for natural language processing, was employed for topic modeling. All the studies were processed, analyzed and visualized by R software, CiteSpace and Gephi.\nA total of 3,697 original publications were identified from the database. USA was the leading country with the most top institutions such as Cleveland Clin Florida and Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation. Increasing impact of institutions from Korea and China was also noticed. Bo Shen was the leading author in publication. A machine learning based topic modeling identified major clusters, including disease assessment, surgical treatment and complications, risk factors and epidemiology, disease development and diagnosis, target treatment and recurrence. Three topics attracted continuous high research attention, including expression of intestinal cell, perianal fistula and laparoscopic and open operation.\nThis study identified key topics relating to the development of surgery in Crohn's disease, and provided bibliometric insights and perspectives for future development in the field of surgery in Crohn's disease.", 
    "abstract": "In recent years, machine learning has been developed in the medical community to construct multidimensional datasets consisting of many variables and\u00a0perform simultaneous factor analysis.\nThis study aimed to construct a multidimensional dataset of 50 items by incorporating supervised machine learning in a random forest algorithm to predict whether patients will be discharged home or to a facility after a stroke.\nThirty patients hospitalized with cerebrovascular diseases who were subsequently discharged were considered as the study subjects. The dataset used for analysis consisted of attributes such as characteristics (three items), physical and cognitive functions (seven items), functional independence measure (FIM) (18 items), blood data (16 items), and social characteristics (six items). The discharge destination variable was either a home or a facility. Machine learning was used to extract factors important for this classification. The accuracy of the random forest was calculated by five-fold cross-validation. The mean decrease Gini, a measure of importance in classification, was calculated for each fold.\nThe results indicated that FIM, a measure of activities of daily living (ADL), and cognitive function, including memory, which strongly influenced the prediction equation, were important factors in the proposed algorithm. The results of the analysis revealed that the algorithm predicted home discharge or institutionalization with 87.1% accuracy.\nThrough this study, ADL and cognitive function were identified as important factors in predicting home discharge for patients with cerebrovascular disease.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the neurobiology of opioid use disorder (OUD) using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) may help inform treatment strategies to improve patient outcomes. Recent literature suggests temporal characteristics of rs-fMRI blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals may offer complementary information to functional connectivity analysis. However, existing studies of OUD analyze BOLD signals using measures computed across all time points. This study, for the first time in the literature, employs data-driven machine learning (ML) modeling of rs-fMRI BOLD features representing multiple time points to identify region(s) of interest that differentiate OUD subjects from healthy controls (HC). Following the triple network model, we obtain rs-fMRI BOLD features from the default mode network (DMN), salience network (SN), and executive control network (ECN) for 31 OUD and 45 HC subjects. Then, we use the Boruta ML algorithm to identify statistically significant BOLD features that differentiate OUD from HC, identifying the DMN as the most salient functional network for OUD. Furthermore, we conduct brain activity mapping, showing heightened neural activity within the DMN for OUD. We perform 5-fold cross-validation classification (OUD vs. HC) experiments to study the discriminative power of functional network features with and without fusing demographic features. The DMN shows the most discriminative power, achieving mean AUC and F1 scores of 80.91% and 73.97%, respectively, when fusing BOLD and demographic features. Follow-up Boruta analysis using BOLD features extracted from the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, and left and right temporoparietal junctions reveals significant features for all four functional hubs within the DMN.", 
    "abstract": "Tacrolimus (TAC) has significantly improved kidney graft survival following transplantation, though it is associated with adverse side effects. The most prevalent complication resulting from excessive TAC exposure is the onset of de novo diabetes mellitus (DM), a condition that can negatively impact both renal graft function and patient outcomes. De novo DM is linked to an increased risk of chronic transplant dysfunction, as well as cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear, emerging research in the field of omics shows promise. The aim of this study was to investigate the metabolomic profile of kidney transplant patients who developed de novo DM, in comparison to those who did not, following TAC exposure, using untargeted metabolomic analysis through ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS) and machine learning algorithms.\nA cohort of 34 kidney transplant patients on a Tacrolimus regimen for at least 6 months was enrolled in the study, with serum samples collected from each patient. Comprehensive profiling of serum metabolites was performed, enabling the classification of patients into de novo diabetes mellitus and non diabetes groups. The metabolomic analysis of serum was conducted using UHPLC-MS.\nOf the 34 patients, 16 were diagnosed with TAC-induced diabetes. A total of 334 metabolites were identified in the serum samples, of which 10 demonstrated a significant correlation with the de novo diabetes mellitus group. Most of these metabolites were linked to alterations in lipid metabolism.\nThe application of metabolomics in kidney transplant patients undergoing a Tacrolimus regimen is both feasible and effective in identifying metabolites associated with de novo diabetes mellitus. This approach may provide valuable insights into the metabolic alterations underlying TAC-induced diabetes.", 
    "abstract": "To challenge clinicians and informaticians to learn about potential sources of bias in medical machine learning models through investigation of data and predictions from an open-source severity of illness score.\nOver a two-day period (total elapsed time approximately 28 hours), we conducted a datathon that challenged interdisciplinary teams to investigate potential sources of bias in the Global Open Source Severity of Illness Score. Teams were invited to develop hypotheses, to use tools of their choosing to identify potential sources of bias, and to provide a final report.\nFive teams participated, three of which included both informaticians and clinicians. Most (4/5) used Python for analyses, the remaining team used R. Common analysis themes included relationship of the GOSSIS-1 prediction score with demographics and care related variables; relationships between demographics and outcomes; calibration and factors related to the context of care; and the impact of missingness. Representativeness of the population, differences in calibration and model performance among groups, and differences in performance across hospital settings were identified as possible sources of bias.\nDatathons are a promising approach for challenging developers and users to explore questions relating to unrecognized biases in medical machine learning algorithms.", 
    "abstract": "Ustekinumab (UST), a biologic against interleukin (IL)-12/23, is commonly used to treat Crohn's disease (CD). Myofibroblast (MF) is known as one of the most important factors causing intestinal fibrosis, and UST has been reported to alleviate this condition. However, the genetic mechanisms underlying UST's effects on CD remain unclear. This study uses bioinformatics tools to analyze the genes and potential pathways affected by UST in CD, with a focus on its anti-fibrosis effects, providing insights into new therapeutic targets.\nThe data downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were analyzed to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Various machine learning strategies, including the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine (SVM), and random forest (RF), were employed to screen for key genes among the DEGs. Functional and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted, and key genes associated with myofibroblast (MF) activity were screened. Finally, endoscopic surgical specimens from CD patients and healthy participants were collected to assess the expression levels of collagen and key genes in intestinal tissues using hematoxylin-eosin (H&E), Masson staining, and immunohistochemistry.\nA total of 1,341 DEGs associated with CD were identified. Among them, 738 genes showed low expression in healthy populations but high expression in patients with CD, reduced expression after the treatment of UST. In contrast, 603 genes exhibited high expression in healthy individuals, showed low expression in CD patients, and increased expression after UST treatment. Functional and pathway analysis showed that DEGs were mainly concentrated in response to foreign biological stimuli and bacterial-derived molecules. DEGs are mainly enriched in chemokines, TNF, IL-17, and other signaling pathways. Seven key genes were identified: NCRNA00236, LOC730101, ORP3, XG, UBFD1, KDELC1, and RBP7. Single-cell analysis revealed that KDELC1 was closely related to MF activity. MFs with high KDELC1 expression were significantly enriched in biological functions, signaling pathways, and metabolic processes that promote fibrosis. The experiment showed that UST treatment helped maintain the integrity of intestinal tissue structure, reducing the expression levels of collagen I, KDELC1, and the severity of intestinal fibrosis. The functional and pathway analysis reiterated that DEGs were largely focused on responses to foreign biological stimuli and bacterial-derived molecules, as well as signaling pathways such as chemokines, TNF, and IL-17. Of the identified genes, KDELC1 showed a particularly strong correlation with MF activity in single-cell analysis (R\u2009=\u20090.33, \nKDELC1 plays a key role in regulating multiple biological functions, including signaling pathways related to MF. UST alleviates intestinal fibrosis by targeting KDELC1, thereby influencing intramuscular fat metabolism and intercellular communication.", 
    "abstract": "It is imperative to differentiate true progression (TP) from pseudoprogression (PsP) in glioblastomas (GBMs). We sought to investigate the potential of physiologically sensitive quantitative parameters derived from diffusion and perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and molecular signature combined with machine learning in distinguishing TP from PsP in GBMs in the present study.\nGBM patients (\nThe quadratic support vector machine was found to be the best classifier in distinguishing TP from PsP with a training accuracy of 91%, cross-validation accuracy of 86%, and testing accuracy of 85%. Additionally, ROC analysis revealed an accuracy of 85%, sensitivity of 70%, and specificity of 100%.\nMachine learning using quantitative multiparametric MRI may be a promising approach to distinguishing TP from PsP in GBMs.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate risk assessment of bone marrow failure syndrome (BMFS) is crucial for early diagnosis and intervention. Interpreting complete blood count (CBC) data is challenging without hematological expertise. To support primary physicians, we developed a predictive model using basic demographics and CBC data collected retrospectively from two major hospitals in South Korea. Binary classifiers for aplastic anemia and myelodysplastic syndrome were created and combined to form a BMFS classifier. The model demonstrated high performance in distinguishing BMFS, with consistent results across different CBC feature sets, confirmed by external validation. This algorithm provides a practical guide for primary physicians to identify BMFS based on initial CBC data, aiding in effective triage, timely referrals, and improved patient care.", 
    "abstract": "The relationship between COVID-19 and ischemic stroke (IS) has attracted significant attention, yet the precise mechanism at the gene level remains unclear. This study aims to reveal potential biomarkers and drugs for COVID-19-related IS through bioinformatics methods. We collected two gene expression profiling datasets, GSE16561 and GSE213313, and selected GSE179879 and GSE196822 as validation sets for analysis. Through analysis, we identified 77 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) shared between COVID-19 and IS. Further gene enrichment analysis revealed that these genes are primarily involved in immune regulation. By constructing a protein-protein interaction network, we screened out nine hub genes, including FCGR3A, KLRB1, IL2RB, CD2, IL7R, CCR7, CD3D, GZMK, and ITK. In LASSO regression analysis, we evaluated the ROC curve's area under the curve (AUC) scores of key genes to assess their diagnostic accuracy. Subsequently, we performed random forest (RF), Support Vector Machine Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE), and neural network construction on hub genes to ensure accurate diagnosis of IS. Finally, by intersecting the results of three algorithms (LASSO regression, random forest, and SVM), CD3D and ITK were identified as the ultimate key genes. Based on this, we predicted potential targeted drug Blinatumomab. These research findings provide clues for a deeper understanding of the biological mechanisms of COVID-19-related IS and offer new insights for exploring novel treatment approaches.", 
    "abstract": "Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is a serious postoperative complication among geriatric surgical patients, which frequently develops into sepsis or even death. Notably, the incidence of SIRS and sepsis steadily increased with age. It's important to identify the risk of postoperative SIRS for elderly patients at a sufficiently early stage, which would allow preemptive individualized enhanced therapy to be conducted to improve the prognosis of elderly patients. In recent years, ML models have been deployed by researchers for many tasks, including disease prediction and risk stratification, exhibiting good application potential.\nWe aimed to develop and validate an individualized predictive model to identify susceptible and high-risk populations of SIRS in elderly patients, so as to instruct appropriate early interventions.\nData of surgical patients aged \u2265 65 years from September 2015 to September 2020 in three independent medical centers were retrieved and analyzed. The eligible patient cohort in the Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University was separated into an 80% training set (2882 patients) and a 20% internal validation set (720 patients) randomly. Four machine learning (ML) models were developed to predict postoperative SIRS. Area under receiver-operating curve (AUC), F1 score, Brier score, and calibration curve were used to evaluate the model performance. The model with the best performance was further validated in the other two independent datasets involving 844 and 307 cases, respectively.\nThe incidence of SIRS in the three medical centers was 24.3% (876 out of 3602 patients), 29.6% (250 out of 844 patients) and 6.5% (20 out of 307 patients), respectively. 15 variables were identified significantly associated with postoperative SIRS and applied in four ML models to predict postoperative SIRS. A balanced cutoff between sensitivity and specificity was chosen to ensure as high TP (true positive) as possible. The Random Forest Classifier (RF) model showed the best overall performance to predict postoperative SIRS, with an AUC of 0.751 (0.709-0.793), sensitivity of 0.682, specificity of 0.681 as well as F1 score of 0.508 in the internal validation set, and higher AUCs in external validation-1 set (0.759, 0.723-0.795) and external validation-2 set (0.804, 0.746-0.863).\nWe developed and validated a generalizable RF model for predicting postoperative SIRS in elderly patients, enabling clinicians to screen susceptible and high-risk patients and implement early individualized interventions. An online risk calculator to make the RF model accessible to anesthesiologists and peers around the world was developed.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The histopathological analysis of minor salivary gland biopsies, particularly through the quantification of the Focus Score (FS), is pivotal in the diagnostic workflow for Sj\u00f6gren's Syndrome (SS). AI-based image recognition using deep learning models has demonstrated potential in enhancing diagnostic accuracy and efficiency in preclinical research.\nThe primary aim of this investigation was to utilize an auto-machine learning (autoML) platform for the automated segmentation and quantification of FS on histopathological slides, aiming to augment diagnostic precision and speed in SS.\nA cohort comprising 86 patients with sicca syndrome (37 diagnosed with SS based on the 2016 ACR/EULAR Classification Criteria and 49 non-SS) was selected for an in-depth histological examination. A repository of 172 slides (two per patient) was assembled, encompassing 74 slides meeting the classificatory thresholds for SS (FS\u2009\u2265\u20091, indicative of lymphocytic infiltration) and 98 slides showcasing normal salivary gland histology. The autoML platform utilized (Giotto, L2F, Lausanne Switzerland) employed a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture (ResNet-152) for the training and validation phases, using a dataset of 172 slides.\nThe developed model exhibited a reliability score of 0.88, proficiently distinguishing SS cases, with a sensitivity of 89.47% (95% CI: 66.86% to 98.70%) and a specificity of 88.24% (95% CI: 63.56% to 98.54%). The model found histological slides of suboptimal quality (e.g., those compromised during fixation or staining processes) to be the most challenging for accurate classification.\nAutoML platforms offer a rapid and flexible approach to developing machine learning models, even with smaller datasets, as demonstrated in this study for SS. These platforms hold significant potential for enhancing diagnostic precision and efficiency in both clinical and research settings. Multicentric studies with larger patient cohorts are essential for thorough evaluation and validation of this innovative diagnostic approach.", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning methods are increasingly being used to predict clinical outcomes. Optimism is the difference in model performance between derivation and validation samples. The term \"data hungriness\" refers to the sample size needed for a modelling technique to generate a prediction model with minimal optimism. Our objective was to compare the relative data hungriness of different statistical and machine learning methods when assessed using calibration.\nWe used Monte Carlo simulations to assess the effect of number of events per variable (EPV) on the optimism of six learning methods when assessing model calibration: unpenalized logistic regression, ridge regression, lasso regression, bagged classification trees, random forests, and stochastic gradient boosting machines using trees as the base learners. We performed simulations in two large cardiovascular datasets each of which comprised an independent derivation and validation sample: patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction and patients hospitalized with heart failure. We used six data-generating processes, each based on one of the six learning methods. We allowed the sample sizes to be such that the number of EPV ranged from 10 to 200 in increments of 10. We applied six prediction methods in each of the simulated derivation samples and evaluated calibration in the simulated validation samples using the integrated calibration index, the calibration intercept, and the calibration slope. We also examined Nagelkerke's R\nAcross all 12 scenarios (2 diseases\u2009\u00d7\u20096 data-generating processes), penalized logistic regression displayed very low optimism even when the number of EPV was very low. Random forests and bagged trees tended to be the most data hungry and displayed the greatest optimism.\nWhen assessed using calibration, penalized logistic regression was substantially less data hungry than methods from the machine learning literature.", 
    "abstract": "Recently, magnetic and inertial measurement units (MIMU) based systems have been applied in the spine mobility assessment; this evaluation is essential in the clinical practice for diagnosis and treatment evaluation. The available systems are limited in the number of sensors, and neither develops a methodology for the correct placement of the sensors, seeking the relevant mobility information of the spine.\nThis work presents a methodology for analyzing a system consisting of sixteen MIMUs to reduce the amount of information and obtain an optimal configuration that allows distinguishing between different body postures in a movement. Four machine learning algorithms were trained and assessed using data from the range of motion in three movements (Mov.1-Anterior hip flexion; Mov.2-Lateral trunk flexion; Mov.3-Axial trunk rotation) obtained from 12 patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis.\nThe methodology identified the optimal minimal configuration for different movements. The configuration showed good accuracy in discriminating between different body postures. Specifically, it had an accuracy of 0.963\u2009\u00b1\u20090.021 for detecting when the subject is upright or bending in Mov.1, 0.944\u2009\u00b1\u20090.038 for identifying when the subject is flexed to the left or right in Mov.2, and 0.852\u2009\u00b1\u20090.097 for recognizing when the subject is rotated to the right or left in Mov.3.\nOur results indicate that the methodology developed results in a feasible configuration for practical clinical studies and paves the way for designing specific IMU-based assessment instruments.\nStudy approved by the Local Ethics Committee of the General Hospital of Mexico \"Dr. Eduardo Liceaga\" (protocol code DI/03/17/471).", 
    "abstract": "Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) can be fatal if left unrecognized and untreated. The purpose was to develop a machine learning (ML) model for predicting the 30-day all-cause mortality risk in SAP patients and to explain the most important predictors.\nThis research utilized six ML methods, including logistic regression (LR), k-nearest neighbors(KNN), support vector machines (SVM), naive Bayes (NB), random forests(RF), and extreme gradient boosting(XGBoost), to construct six predictive models for SAP. An extensive evaluation was conducted to determine the most effective model and then the Shapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) method was applied to visualize key variables. Utilizing the optimized model, stratified predictions were made for patients with SAP. Further, the study employed multivariable Cox regression analysis and Kaplan-Meier survival curves, along with subgroup analysis, to explore the relationship between the machine learning-based score and 30-day mortality.\nThrough LASSO regression and recursive feature elimination (RFE), 25 optimal feature variables are selected. The XGBoost model performed best, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.881, a sensitivity of 0.5714, a specificity of 0.9651 and an F1 score of 0.64. The first six most important feature variables were the use of vasopressor, high Charlson comorbidity index, low blood oxygen saturation, history of malignant tumor, hyperglycemia and high APSIII score. Based on the optimal threshold of 0.62, patients were divided into high and low-risk groups, and the 30-day survival rate in the high-risk group decreased significantly. COX regression analysis further confirmed the positive correlation between high-risk scores and 30-day mortality. In the subgroup analysis, the model showed good risk stratification ability in patients with different gender, renal replacement therapy and with or without a history of malignant tumor, but it was not effective in predicting peripheral vascular disease.\nthe XGBoost model effectively predicts the severity of SAP, serving as a valuable tool for clinicians to identify SAP early.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of machine learning models incorporating multimodal features for predicting radiation pneumonitis in lung cancer through a systematic review and meta-analysis.\nRelevant studies were identified through a systematic search of PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and the Cochrane Library from October 2003 to December 2023. Additional studies were located by reviewing bibliographies and relevant websites. Two independent researchers screened titles, abstracts, and full-text articles according to predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Data extraction was performed using standardized forms, and study quality was assessed using the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 tool. The primary outcomes, including combined sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (PLR), negative likelihood ratio (NLR), diagnostic odds ratio (DOR), and area under the curve (AUC), were calculated using STATA MP-64 software(Stata Corporation LLC, College Station, USA) with a random-effects model. Meta-analysis was conducted to synthesize diagnostic accuracy measures, and analyses of heterogeneity and publication bias were performed.\nA total of 1,406 patients with primary lung cancer were included in this systematic review, drawing data from 9 studies. The pooled analysis revealed a sensitivity of 0.74 [0.58-0.85] and a specificity of 0.91 [0.87-0.95] for machine learning models in diagnosing radiation pneumonitis. The positive likelihood ratio (PLR) was 8.69 [5.21-14.50], the negative likelihood ratio (NLR) was 0.28 [0.16-0.49], and the diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) was 30.73 [11.96-78.97]. The area under the curve (AUC) was 0.93 [0.90-0.95], indicating excellent diagnostic performance. Meta-regression analysis identified that the number of machine learning models, year of publication, and study design contributed to heterogeneity among studies. No evidence of publication bias was found. Overall, machine learning models incorporating multimodal characteristics demonstrated 75% accuracy in predicting moderate to severe radiation pneumonitis.\nIn conclusion, by integrating the current machine learning (ML) algorithm's ability in big data mining, a predictive model can be constructed by combining multi-modal features such as genetics, imaging, and cell factors. By selecting multiple machine learning algorithm frameworks and competing for the best combination model based on research goals, the reliability and accuracy of the radiation pneumonitis prediction model can be greatly improved.\nPROSPERO (CRD42024497599).", 
    "abstract": "Type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is strongly linked with a heightened risk of coronary artery disease (CAD). Exploring biological targets common to T2DM and CAD is essential for CAD intervention strategies.\nRNA transcriptome data from CAD and T2DM patients and single-cell transcriptional data from myocardial tissue of CAD patients were used for bioinformatics analysis. Differential analysis and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) were conducted to identify hub genes associated with the CAD Index (CADi) in these cells. We then intersected these genes with differentially expressed genes in the T2DM dataset to validate the key gene FGF7. Additional analyses included immune analysis, drug sensitivity, competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks, and smooth muscle cell -related functional analysis.\nAn abnormally high proportion of smooth muscle cells was observed in CAD tissues compared to normal cardiomyocytes. The gene FGF7, which encodes the keratinocyte growth factor 7 protein, showed increased expression in both CAD and T2DM and was significantly positively correlated with the CADi (correlation\u2009=\u20090.24, p\u2009<\u20090.05). FGF7 expression was inversely correlated with CD4\nFGF7 serves as a critical shared biological target for T2DM and CAD, playing a significant role in CAD progression with potential therapeutic implications.", 
    "abstract": "In consideration of ongoing climate changes, it has been necessary to provide new tools capable of mitigating hydrogeological risks. These effects will be more marked in small catchments, where the geological and environmental contexts do not require long warning times to implement risk mitigation measures. In this context, deep learning models can be an effective tool for local authorities to have solid forecasts of outflows and to make correct choices during the alarm phase. In this study, we investigate the use of deep learning models able to forecast hydrometric height in very fast hydrographic basins. The errors of the models are very small and about a few centimetres, with several forecasting hours. The models allow a prediction of extreme events with also 4-6\u00a0h (RMSE of about 10-30\u00a0cm, with a forecasting time of 6\u00a0h) in hydrographic basins characterized by rapid changes in the river flow rates. However, to reduce the uncertainties of the predictions with the increase in forecasting time, the system performs better when using a machine learning model able to provide a confidence interval of the prediction based on the last observed river flow rate. By testing models based on different input datasets, the results indicate that a combination of models can provide a set of predictions allowing for a more comprehensive description of the possible future evolutions of river flows. Once the deep learning models have been trained, their application is purely objective and very rapid, permitting the development of simple software that can be used even by lower skilled individuals.", 
    "abstract": "Selecting the appropriate tractor for small-scale farms is a complex process due to the multitude of technical, environmental, and economic criteria that must be evaluated. This study addresses this challenge by integrating the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) with machine learning (ML) to reduce the number of criteria and simplify the decision-making process. The research aims to determine the most relevant criteria aligned with sustainable development goals for selecting the right tractor, focusing on small farms in the Egyptian Delta. Four tractors, with horsepower ranging from 55 to 95, were evaluated based on inputs from forty-two governmental service providers in the study area. Initially, nine criteria were identified, encompassing key technical, environmental, and economic factors. These criteria were reduced to three-price, power, and maintenance costs by weights 0.142, 0.334, and 0.525, respectively-using Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering with Euclidean distance. This reduction streamlined the selection process, making it more practical for farmers. Results show that the second tractor (T2), with a priority score of 0.326 and a normalized value of 33.4%, emerged as the optimal choice for small-scale farmers, outperforming the first tractor (T1) (28.7%) and third tractor (T3) (21%). Integrating AHP and ML simplifies tractor selection, ensuring sustainability, cost-efficiency, and operational effectiveness.", 
    "abstract": "Density functional theory (DFT) calculations are widely used for material property prediction, but their computational cost can hinder the discovery of novel perovskites. This work explores machine learning (ML) as a faster alternative for predicting band gaps in complex perovskites, focusing on low-symmetry double and layered structures. We employ Support Vector Regression (SVR), Random Forest Regression (RFR), Gradient Boosting Regression (GBR), and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) to predict both direct and indirect band gaps. Model performance is evaluated using Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Squared Error (MSE), and R-squared (R\u00b2) metrics. Our results reveal SVR as the most effective general model for predicting band gaps in both double and layered perovskites. Interestingly, for double perovskites specifically, XGBoost achieves even higher accuracy when incorporating derivative discontinuity as a feature. Feature importance analysis identifies the standard deviation of valence charges (\"Valence (std)\") as the most critical factor for band gap prediction across all studied perovskites. This research demonstrates the potential of ML for efficient and accurate band gap prediction in complex perovskites, accelerating material discovery efforts.", 
    "abstract": "Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are important tools across many fields of health and medical research. Pharmacoepidemiologists can bring essential methodological rigor and study design expertise to the design and use of these technologies within healthcare settings. AI/ML-based tools also play a role in pharmacoepidemiology research, as we may apply them to answer our own research questions, take responsibility for evaluating medical devices with AI/ML components, or participate in interdisciplinary research to create new AI/ML algorithms. While epidemiologic expertise is essential to deploying AI/ML responsibly and ethically, the rapid advancement of these technologies in the past decade has resulted in a knowledge gap for many in the field. This article provides a brief overview of core AI/ML concepts, followed by a discussion of potential applications of AI/ML in pharmacoepidemiology research, and closes with a review of important concepts across application areas, including interpretability and fairness. This review is intended to provide an accessible, practical overview of AI/ML for pharmacoepidemiology research, with references to further, more detailed resources on fundamental topics.", 
    "abstract": "The use of machine-learning (ML) algorithms in medicine has sparked a heated discussion. It is considered one of the most disruptive general-purpose technologies in decades. It has already permeated many areas of our daily lives and produced applications that we can no longer do without, such as navigation apps or translation software. However, many people are still unsure if ML algorithms should be used in medicine in their current form. Doctors are doubtful to what extent they can trust the predictions of algorithms. Shortcomings in development and unclear regulatory oversight can lead to bias, inequality, applicability concerns, and nontransparent assessments. Past mistakes, however, have led to a better understanding of what is needed to develop effective models for clinical use. Physicians and clinical researchers must participate in all development phases and understand their pitfalls. In this review, we explain the basic concepts of ML, present examples in the field of thrombosis and hemostasis, discuss common pitfalls, and present a methodological framework that can be used to develop effective algorithms.", 
    "abstract": "Tennis, a widely enjoyed sport, motivates athletes and coaches to optimize training for competitive success. This retrospective predictive study examines anthropometric features and statistics of 1990 tennis players in the 2022 season, using 20,040 data points retrospectively obtained from the ATP official source after the end of the season. These data were cross-verified with information from other sources before categorisation to address any discrepancies. Employing various analytical methods, the results emphasize the strategic importance of tournament participation and gameplay for financial gains and higher rankings. Prize money analysis reveals a significant disparity favoring top players. Multivariate Analysis of Variance highlights the need to consider multiple variables for understanding ATP rankings. Multinomial Logistic Regression identifies age, height, and specific service-related metrics as key determinants, with older and taller players more likely to secure top positions. Neural Network models exhibit potential in predicting ATP Rank outcomes, particularly for ATP Rank (500). Our results argue for the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI), specifically Neural Networks, in handling complex interactions and emphasize that AI is a supportive tool in decision-making, requiring careful consideration by experienced individuals. In summary, this study enhances our understanding of ATP ranking factors, providing actionable insights for coaches, players, and stakeholders in the tennis community.", 
    "abstract": "Worldwide, cardiovascular diseases are the primary cause of death, with hypertension as a key contributor. In 2019, cardiovascular diseases led to 17.9 million deaths, predicted to reach 23 million by 2030.\nThis study presents a new method to predict hypertension using demographic data, using 6 machine learning models for enhanced reliability and applicability. The goal is to harness artificial intelligence for early and accurate hypertension diagnosis across diverse populations.\nData from 2 national cohort studies, National Health Insurance Service-National Sample Cohort (South Korea, n=244,814), conducted between 2002 and 2013 were used to train and test machine learning models designed to anticipate incident hypertension within 5 years of a health checkup involving those aged \u226520 years, and Japanese Medical Data Center cohort (Japan, n=1,296,649) were used for extra validation. An ensemble from 6 diverse machine learning models was used to identify the 5 most salient features contributing to hypertension by presenting a feature importance analysis to confirm the contribution of each future.\nThe Adaptive Boosting and logistic regression ensemble showed superior balanced accuracy (0.812, sensitivity 0.806, specificity 0.818, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve 0.901). The 5 key hypertension indicators were age, diastolic blood pressure, BMI, systolic blood pressure, and fasting blood glucose. The Japanese Medical Data Center cohort dataset (extra validation set) corroborated these findings (balanced accuracy 0.741 and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve 0.824). The ensemble model was integrated into a public web portal for predicting hypertension onset based on health checkup data.\nComparative evaluation of our machine learning models against classical statistical models across 2 distinct studies emphasized the former's enhanced stability, generalizability, and reproducibility in predicting hypertension onset.", 
    "abstract": "The integration of photocatalysis and biological treatment provides an effective strategy for controlling antibiotic contamination, which requires precise monitoring of toxicity changes during the photocatalytic process. In this study, nanoscale TiO", 
    "abstract": "To critically examine the current state of machine learning (ML) models including patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) scores in cancer research, by investigating the reporting quality of currently available studies and proposing areas of improvement for future use of ML in the field.\nPubMed and Web of Science were systematically searched for publications of studies on patients with cancer applying ML models with PROM scores as either predictors or outcomes. The reporting quality of applied ML models was assessed utilizing an adapted version of the MI-CLAIM (Minimum Information about CLinical Artificial Intelligence Modelling) checklist. The key variables of the checklist are study design, data preparation, model development, optimization, performance, and examination. Reproducibility and transparency complement the reporting quality criteria.\nThe literature search yielded 1634 hits, of which 52 (3.2%) were eligible. Thirty-six (69.2%) publications included PROM scores as a predictor and 32 (61.5%) as an outcome. Results of the reporting quality appraisal indicate a potential for improvement, especially in the areas of model examination. According to the standards of the MI-CLAIM checklist, the reporting quality of ML models in included studies proved to be low. Only nine (17.3%) publications present a discussion about the clinical applicability of the developed model and reproducibility and only three (5.8%) provide a code to reproduce the model and the results.\nThe herein performed critical examination of the status quo of the application of ML models including PROM scores in published oncological studies allowed the identification of areas of improvement for reporting and future use of ML in the field.", 
    "abstract": "Recent advancements in artificial intelligence have proven their effectiveness in orthopaedic settings, especially in tasks like medical image analysis. This study compares human musculoskeletal radiologists to artificial intelligence in a novel, detailed, short, and cost-effective examination of Achilles tendon magnetic resonance images to uncover potential disparities in their reasoning approaches. Aiming to identify relationships between the structured assessment of the Achilles tendon and its function that could support injury prevention. We examined 72 athletes to investigate the link between Achilles tendon structure, as visualised in magnetic resonance images using a precise T2*-weighted gradient echo sequence with very short echo times, and its functional attributes. The acquired data were analysed using advanced artificial intelligence techniques and reviewed by radiologists. Additionally, we conducted statistical assessments to explore relationships with functional studies in four meaningful groups: dynamic strength, range of motion, muscle torque and stabilography.\nThe results show notable linear or non-linear relationships between functional indicators and structural alterations (maximal obtained Spearman correlation coefficients ranged from 0.3 to 0.36 for radiological assessment and from 0.33 to 0.49 for artificial intelligence assessment, while maximal normalised mutual information ranged from 0.52 to 0.57 for radiological assessment and from 0.42 to 0.6 for artificial intelligence assessment). Moreover, when artificial intelligence-based magnetic resonance assessment was utilised as an input, the associations consistently proved more robust, or the count of significant relationships surpassed that derived from radiological assessment. Ultimately, utilising only structural parameters as inputs enabled us to explain up to 59% of the variance within specific functional groups.\nThis analysis revealed that structural parameters influence four key functional aspects related to the Achilles tendon. Furthermore, we found that relying solely on subjective radiologist opinions limited our ability to reason effectively, in contrast to the structured artificial intelligence assessment.\nCross-sectional studies.", 
    "abstract": "The use of machine learning (ML) algorithms in molecular simulations has become commonplace in recent years. There now exists, for instance, a multitude of ML force field algorithms that have enabled simulations approaching ", 
    "abstract": "In the pursuit of enhancing the performance and safety of lithium (Li)-metal batteries, the discovery of effective electrolyte additives to suppress Li dendrites has emerged as a paramount objective. In this study, we employ an inverse design strategy to identify potential additives for dendrite mitigation. Two key mechanisms, namely, the formation of robust solid electrolyte interphase layers and the leveling mechanism, serve as the foundation for our investigation. Our inverse design strategy is guided by molecular properties such as the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energy and interaction energy upon Li surface adsorption. An active learning process utilizing Bayesian optimization (BO) was utilized to identify potential molecules with ideal properties. Through this screening process, we uncover a collection of 62 molecules with the potential to act as SEI-forming additives, along with 106 molecules for leveling additives, both surpassing the performance of established additives reported in the literature. This work highlights the potential of BO methods in computationally based inverse design of materials for many applications, and the discovered additives could potentially boost the commercialization of Li-metal batteries.", 
    "abstract": "Leprosy is a neglected infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and Mycobacterium lepromatosis and remains a public health challenge in tropical regions. Therefore, the development of technological tools such as machine learning (ML) offers an opportunity to innovate strategies for improving the diagnosis of this complex disease.\nTo validate the utility of different ML models for the histopathological diagnosis of Hansen disease.\nAn observational study was conducted where 55 H&E-stained tissue slides from leprosy patients and 51 healthy skin controls were analyzed using microphotographs captured at various magnifications. These images were categorized based on histopathological findings and processed using the Cross-Industry Standard Process for Data Mining methodology for designing and training ML models. Five types of ML models were evaluated using standard metrics such as accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, emphasizing data normalization as a fundamental step in optimizing model performance.\nThe artificial neural network (ANN) model demonstrated an accuracy of 70%, sensitivity of 74%, and specificity of 65%, demonstrating its ability to identify leprosy cases with moderate precision. The receiver operating characteristic curve of the ANN model showed an area under the curve of 0.71. Conversely, models such as decision trees, logistic regression, and random forests showed similar accuracy results but with slightly lower sensitivity, potentially indicating a higher risk of false negatives in detecting leprosy-positive cases.\nThe ANN model emerges as a promising alternative for leprosy detection. However, further refinement of these models is necessary to enhance their adaptability across different clinical settings and participation in patient care.", 
    "abstract": "As artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies continue to develop, they are being increasingly used to improve the scientific understanding and clinical care of patients with severe disorders of consciousness following acquired brain damage. We here review recent studies that utilized these techniques to reduce the diagnostic and prognostic uncertainty in disorders of consciousness, and to better characterize patients' response to novel therapeutic interventions.\nMost papers have focused on differentiating between unresponsive wakefulness syndrome and minimally conscious state, utilizing artificial intelligence to better analyze functional neuroimaging and electroencephalography data. They often proposed new features using conventional machine learning rather than deep learning algorithms. To better predict the outcome of patients with disorders of consciousness, recovery was most often based on the Glasgow Outcome Scale, and traditional machine learning techniques were used in most cases. Machine learning has also been employed to predict the effects of novel therapeutic interventions (e.g., zolpidem and transcranial direct current stimulation).\nArtificial intelligence and machine learning can assist in clinical decision-making, including the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy for patients with disorders of consciousness. The performance of these models can be expected to be significantly improved by the use of deep learning techniques.", 
    "abstract": "Perovskite oxides form a large family of materials with applications across various fields, owing to their structural and chemical flexibility. Efficient exploration of this extensive compositional space is now achievable through automated high-throughput experimentation combined with machine learning. In this study, we investigate the composition-structure-performance relationships of high-entropy La", 
    "abstract": "Sepsis is a common disease associated with neonatal and infant mortality, and for diagnosis, blood culture is currently the gold standard method, but it has a low positivity rate and requires more than 2\u00a0days to develop. Meanwhile, unfortunately, the specific biomarkers for the early and timely diagnosis of sepsis in infants and for the determination of the severity of this disease are lacking in clinical practice.\nSamples from 18 sepsis infants with comorbidities, 25 sepsis infants without comorbidities, and 25 infants with noninfectious diseases were evaluated using a serum metabolomics approach based on liquid chromatography\u2012mass spectrometry (LC\u2012MS) technology. Differentially abundant metabolites were screened via multivariate statistical analysis. In addition, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) analyses were conducted to identify the key metabolites in infants with sepsis and without infections. The random forest algorithm was applied to determine key differentially abundant metabolites between sepsis infants with and without comorbidities. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated for biomarker value testing. Finally, a metabolic pathway analysis was conducted to explore the metabolic and signaling pathways associated with the identified differentially abundant metabolites.\nA total of 189 metabolites exhibited significant differences between infectious infants and noninfectious infants, while 137 distinct metabolites exhibited differences between septic infants with and without comorbidities. After screening for the key differentially abundant metabolites using LASSO and SVM-RFE analyses, hexylamine, psychosine sulfate, LysoPC (18:1 (9Z)/0:0), 2,4,6-tribromophenol, and 25-cinnamoyl-vulgaroside were retained for the diagnosis of infant sepsis. ROC curve analysis revealed that the area under the curve (AUC) was 0.9200 for hexylamine, 0.9749 for psychosine sulfate, 0.9684 for LysoPC (18:1 (9Z)/0:0), 0.7405 for 2,4,6-tribromophenol, 0.8893 for 25-cinnamoyl-vulgaroside, and 1.000 for the combination of all metabolites. When the septic infants with comorbidities were compared to those without comorbidities, four endogenous metabolites with the greatest importance were identified using the random forest algorithm, namely, 12-oxo-20-trihydroxy-leukotriene B4, dihydrovaltrate, PA (8:0/12:0), and 2-heptanethiol. The ROC curve analysis of these four key differentially abundant metabolites revealed that the AUC was 1 for all four metabolites. Pathway analysis indicated that phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan biosynthesis, phenylalanine metabolism, and porphyrin metabolism play important roles in infant sepsis.\nSerum metabolite profiles were identified, and machine learning was applied to identify the key differentially abundant metabolites in septic infants with comorbidities, septic infants without comorbidities, and infants without infectious diseases. The findings obtained are expected to facilitate the early diagnosis of sepsis in infants and determine the severity of the disease.", 
    "abstract": "Life has become more comfortable in the era of advanced technology in this cutthroat competitive world. However, there are also emerging harmful technologies that pose a threat. Without a doubt, phishing is one of the rising concerns that leads to stealing vital information such as passwords, security codes, and personal data from any target node through communication hijacking techniques. In addition, phishing attacks include delivering false messages that originate from a trusted source. Moreover, a phishing attack aims to get the victim to run malicious programs and reveal confidential data, such as bank credentials, one-time passwords, and user login credentials. The sole intention is to collect personal information through malicious program-based attempts embedded in URLs, emails, and website-based attempts. Notably, this proposed technique detects URL, email, and website-based phishing attacks, which will be beneficial and secure us from scam attempts. Subsequently, the data are pre-processed to identify phishing attacks using data cleaning, attribute selection, and attacks detected using machine learning techniques. Furthermore, the proposed techniques use heuristic-based machine learning to identify phishing attacks. Admittedly, 56 features are used to analyze URL phishing findings, and experimental results show that the proposed technique has a better accuracy of 97.2%. Above all, the proposed techniques for email phishing detection obtain a higher accuracy of 97.4%. In addition, the proposed technique for website phishing detection has a better accuracy of 98.1%, and 48 features are used for analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Celiac disease poses a significant health challenge for individuals consuming gluten-containing foods. While the availability of gluten-free products has increased, there is still a need for therapeutic treatments. The advancement of computational drug design, particularly using bio-cheminformatics-oriented machine learning, offers promising avenues for developing such therapies. One promising target is Transglutaminase 2 (TG2), a protein involved in the autoimmune response triggered by gluten consumption. In this study, we utilized data from approximately 1100 TG2 inhibition assays to develop ligand-based molecular screening techniques using ensemble machine-learning models and extensive molecular feature libraries. Various classifiers, including tree-based methods, artificial neural networks, and graph neural networks, were evaluated to identify primary systems for predictive analysis and feature significance assessment. Boosting ensembles of perceptron deep learning and low-depth random forest weak learners emerged as the most effective, achieving over 90\u00a0% accuracy, significantly outperforming a baseline of 64\u00a0%. Key features, such as the presence of a terminal Michael acceptor group and a sulfonamide group, were identified as important for activity. Additionally, a regression model was created to rank active compounds. We developed a web application, Celiac Informatics (https://celiac-informatics-v1-2b0a85e75868.herokuapp.com), to facilitate the screening of potential therapeutic molecules for celiac disease. The web app also provides drug-likeness reports, supporting the development of novel drugs.", 
    "abstract": "A method is presented for predicting total phosphorus concentration in soils from Santander de Quilichao, Colombia, using a UV-VIS V-750 Spectrophotometer and machine learning techniques. A total of 152 soil samples, prepared with varying proportions of P", 
    "abstract": "The current research utilized visual characteristics obtained from RGB images and qualitative characteristics to investigate changes in surface defects, predict physical and chemical characteristics, and classify sweet cherries during storage. It was achieved with the help of ANN (Artificial Neural Network) and ANFIS (Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System) models. The ANN used in this study was a Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) with SigmoidAxon and TanhAxon threshold functions, trained with the Momentum training function. Additionally, ANFIS with a Mamdani system and Triangle, Gauss, and Trapezoidal membership functions, was employed to predict sweet cherries' physical and chemical properties and their quality classification. Both models incorporate four algorithms. Additionally, the algorithms use color statistical features and color texture features combined with physical and chemical properties, including weight loss, firmness, titratable acidity, and total anthocyanin content. The image color and texture characteristics were used by ANN and ANFIS models to predict physical and chemical properties with high accuracy. ANN and ANFIS models accurately estimate sweet cherry quality grades in all four algorithms with over 90\u00a0% accuracy. According to the findings, the ANN and ANFIS models have demonstrated satisfactory performance in the qualitative classification and prediction of sweet cherries' physical and chemical properties.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis are persistent global health threats, ranking among the top causes of death. Despite medical advancements, their mortality rates have remained stagnant for decades. Existing scoring systems such as Child-Turcotte-Pugh and Mayo End-Stage Liver Disease have limitations, prompting the exploration of more accurate predictive methods using artificial intelligence and machine learning (ML).\nWe retrospectively reviewed the data of all adult patients with acute decompensated liver cirrhosis admitted to a tertiary hospital during 2015-2021. The dataset underwent preprocessing to handle missing values and standardize continuous features. Traditional ML and deep learning algorithms were applied to build a 28-day mortality prediction model.\nThe subjects were 173 cirrhosis patients, whose medical records were examined. We developed and evaluated multiple models for 28-day mortality prediction. Among traditional ML algorithms, logistic regression outperformed was achieving an accuracy of 82.9%, precision of 55.6%, recall of 71.4%, and an F1-score of 0.625. Naive Bayes and Random Forest models also performed well, both achieving the same accuracy (82.9%) and precision (54.5%). The deep learning models (multilayer artificial neural network, recurrent neural network, and Long Short-Term Memory) exhibited mixed results, with the multilayer artificial neural network achieving an accuracy of 74.3% but lower precision and recall. The feature importance analysis identified key predictability contributors, including admission in the intensive care unit (importance: 0.112), use of mechanical ventilation (importance: 0.095), and mean arterial pressure (importance: 0.073).\nOur study demonstrates the potential of ML in predicting 28-day mortality following hospitalization with acute decompensation of liver cirrhosis. Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, and Random Forest models proved effective, while deep learning models exhibited variable performance. These models can serve as useful tools for risk stratification and timely intervention. Implementing these models in clinical practice has the potential to improve patient outcomes and resource allocation.", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive impairment poses a growing health challenge as populations age. Heavy metals are implicated as environmental risk factors, but their role is not fully understood. Machine learning can integrate multi-factorial data to predict cognitive outcomes.\nTo develop and validate machine learning models for early prediction of cognitive impairment risk using demographics, clinical factors, and biomarkers of heavy metal exposure.\nA retrospective analysis was conducted using 2011-2014 NHANES data. Participants aged\u00a0\u2265\u00a020 underwent cognitive testing. Variables included demographics, medical history, lifestyle factors, and blood and urine levels of lead, cadmium, manganese, and other metals. Machine learning algorithms were trained on 90\u00a0% of data and evaluated on 10\u00a0%. Performance was assessed using metrics like accuracy, AUC, and sensitivity.\nA final sample of 2,933 participants was analyzed. The stacking ensemble model achieved the best performance with an AUC of 0.778 for test data, sensitivity of 0.879. Important predictors included age, gender, hypertension, education, urinary cadmium and blood manganese levels.\nMachine learning can effectively predict cognitive impairment risk using comprehensive clinical and exposure data. Incorporating heavy metal biomarkers enhanced prediction and provided insights into environmental contributions to cognitive decline. Prospective studies are needed to validate models over time.", 
    "abstract": "Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a highly prevalent liver disease globally, with a significant risk of progressing to cirrhosis and even liver cancer. Efferocytosis, a process implicated in a broad spectrum of chronic inflammatory disorders, has been reported to be associated with the pathogenesis of MASH; however, its precise role remains obscure. Thus, we aimed to identify and validate efferocytosis linked signatures for detection of MASH.\nWe retrieved gene expression patterns of MASH from the GEO database and then focused on assessing the differential expression of efferocytosis-related genes (EFRGs) between MASH and control groups. This analysis was followed by a series of in-depth investigations, including protein-protein interaction (PPI), correlation analysis, and functional enrichment analysis, to uncover the molecular interactions and pathways at play. To screen for biomarkers for diagnosis, we applied machine learning algorithm to identify hub genes and constructed a clinical predictive model. Additionally, we conducted immune infiltration and single-cell transcriptome analyses in both MASH and control samples, providing insights into the immune cell landscape and cellular heterogeneity in these conditions.\nThis research pinpointed 39 genes exhibiting a robust correlation with efferocytosis in MASH. Among these, five potential diagnostic biomarkers-\nOur study comprehensively elucidated the relationship between MASH and efferocytosis, constructing a favorable diagnostic model. Furthermore, we identified potential therapeutic targets for MASH treatment and offered novel insights into unraveling the underlying mechanisms of this disease.", 
    "abstract": "Transitions between free-surface and pressurized flows, known as transient mixed flows, have posed significant challenges in urban drainage systems (UDS), e.g., pipe bursts, road collapses, and geysers. However, traditional mechanistic modeling for mixed flows is challenged by the difficult integration of multi-source data, complex equation forms for the discovery of dynamic processes, and high computational demands. In response, we proposed a data-driven model, TMF-PINN, which utilizes a Physics-Informed Neural Network (PINN) to simulate and invert Transient Mixed Flow (TMF) in sewer networks. This model integrates experimental data, simulation results and Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) into its loss function, leveraging the extensive data available in smart urban water systems. A status factor (", 
    "abstract": "The overall survival of patients with pancreatic cancer is extremely low. We aimed to establish machine learning (ML) based model to accurately predict three-year survival and prognosis of pancreatic cancer patients.\nWe analyzed pancreatic cancer patients from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database between 2000 and 2021. Univariate and multivariate logistic analysis were employed to select variables. Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) method based on 6 ML algorithms was utilized in feature selection. To construct predictive model, 13 ML algorithms were evaluated by area under the curve (AUC), area under precision-recall curve (PRAUC), accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, cross-entropy, Brier scores and Balanced Accuracy (bacc) and F Beta Score (fbeta). An optimal ML model was constructed to predict three-year survival, and the predictive results were explained by SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) framework. Meanwhile, 101 ML algorithm combinations were developed to select the best model with highest C-index to predict prognosis of pancreatic cancer patients.\nA total of 20,064 pancreatic cancer patients from SEER database was consecutively enrolled. We utilized eight clinical variables to establish prediction model for three-year survival. CatBoost model was selected as the best prediction model, and AUC was 0.932 [0.924, 0.939], 0.899 [0.873, 0.934] and 0.826 [0.735, 0.919] in training, internal test and external test sets, with 0.839 [0.831, 0.847] accuracy, 0.872 [0.858, 0.887] sensitivity, 0.803 [0.784, 0.825] specificity and 0.832 [0.821, 0.853] precision. Surgery type had the greatest effects on three-year survival according to SHAP results. For prognosis prediction, \"RSF+GBM\" algorithm was the best prognostic model with C-index of 0.774, 0.722 and 0.674 in training, internal test and external test sets.\nOur ML models demonstrate excellent accuracy and reliability, offering more precise personalized prognostic prediction to pancreatic cancer patients.", 
    "abstract": "Individuals living with obesity are differentially susceptible to cardiometabolic diseases. We hypothesized that an integrative multi-omics approach might improve identification of subgroups of individuals with obesity who have distinct cardiometabolic disease patterns.\nWe performed machine learning-based, integrative unsupervised clustering to identify proteomics- and metabolomics-defined subpopulations of individuals living with obesity (BMI\u2009\u2265\u200930\u2009kg/m\nWe identified two distinct clusters (iCluster1 and 2). iCluster2 had significantly higher average BMI values, fasting blood glucose, and inflammation. iCluster1 was associated with higher levels of total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Pathways mediating cell growth, lipogenesis, and energy expenditures were positively associated with iCluster1. Inflammatory response and insulin resistance pathways were positively associated with iCluster2.\nAlthough the two identified clusters may represent progressive obesity-related pathologic processes measured at different stages, other mechanisms in combination could also underpin the identified clusters given no significant age difference between the comparative groups. For instance, clusters may reflect differences in dietary/behavioral patterns or differential rates of metabolic damage.", 
    "abstract": "To identify predictors of HIV acquisition in Botswana.\nWe applied machine learning approaches to identify HIV risk predictors using existing data from a large, well-characterized HIV incidence cohort.\nWe applied machine learning (randomForestSRC) to analyze data from a large population-based HIV incidence cohort enrolled in a cluster-randomized HIV prevention trial in 30 communities across Botswana. We sought to identify the most important risk factors for HIV acquisition, starting with 110 potential predictors.\nDuring a median 29-month follow-up of 8,551 HIV-negative adults, 147 (1.7%) acquired HIV. Our machine learning analysis found that for females, the most important variables for predicting HIV acquisition were the use of injectable hormonal contraception, frequency of sex in the prior 3\u200amonths with the most recent partner and residing in a community with HIV prevalence of 29% or higher. For the small proportion (0.3%) of females who had all three risk factors, their estimated probability of acquiring HIV during 29\u200amonths of follow-up was 34% (approximate annual incidence of 14%). For males, non-long-term relationships with the most recent partner and community HIV prevalence of 34% or higher were the most important HIV risk predictors. The 6% of males who had both risk factors had a 5.1% probability of acquiring HIV during the follow-up period (approximate annual incidence of 2.1%).\nMachine learning approaches allowed us to analyze a large number of variables to efficiently identify key factors strongly predictive of HIV risk. These factors could help target HIV prevention interventions in Botswana.\nNCT01965470.", 
    "abstract": "Prediabetes and diabetes are both abnormal states of glucose metabolism (AGM) that can lead to severe complications. Early detection of AGM is crucial for timely intervention and treatment. However, fasting blood glucose (FBG) as a mass population screening method may fail to identify some individuals who are actually AGM but with normoglycemia. This study aimed to develop and validate machine learning (ML) models to identify AGM among individuals with normoglycemia using routine health check-up indicators.\nAccording to the American Diabetes Association (ADA) criteria, participants with normoglycemia (FBG\u00a0\u2264\u00a05.6\u00a0mmol/L) were collected from 2019 to 2023, and then divided into AGM and Normal\u00a0groups using glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 5.7% as the threshold. Data from 2019 to 2022 were divided into training and internal validation sets at a 7:3 ratio, while data from 2023 were used as the external validation set. Seven ML algorithms-including logistic regression (LR), random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), extreme gradient boosting machine, multilayer perceptron (MLP), light gradient boosting machine (LightGBM), and categorical boosting (CatBoost)-were used to build models for identifying AGM in normoglycemia population. Model performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (auROC) and the precision-recall curve (auPR). The feature contributions to the optimal model was visualised using the SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP). Finally, an intuitive and user-friendly interactive interface was developed.\nA total of 59,259 participants were finally enroled in this study, and then divided into the training set of 32,810, the internal validation set of 14,060, and the external validation set of 12,389. The Catboost model outperformed the others with auROC of 0.806 and 0.794 for the internal and external validation set, respectively. Age was the most important feature influencing the performance of the CatBoost model, followed by fasting blood glucose, red blood cells, haemoglobin, body mass index, and triglyceride-glucose.\nA well-performed ML model to identify AGM in the normoglycemia population was built, offering significant potential for early intervention and treatment of AGM that would otherwise have been missed.", 
    "abstract": "Our research aims to construct machine learning prediction models to identify patients proned to recurrence after inverted papilloma (IP) surgery and guide their follow-up treatment.\nThis study collected 210 patients underwent IP resection surgery at a university hospital from January 2010 to December 2023. Six machine learning algorithms including ExtraSurvivalTrees (EST), GradientBoostingSurvivalAnalysis (GBSA), RandomSurvivalForest (RSF), SurvivalSVM, Coxnet and Coxph, were used to construct the prediction models. Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) values were used to explain the importance of various features in predicting IP recurrence.\nWe found that the recurrence rate of IP patients is 20.00%, with a median recurrence time of 35.5\u00a0months. Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified mild or moderate dysplasia as an independent risk factor for recurrence. The EST model performs the best in predicting postoperative recurrence of IP, with C-index of 0.968 and 0.878 in the training and testing sets. SHAP emphasizes five important predictive factors for recurrence, including bone defects, orbital involvement, smoking, no processing of tumor attachment sites and drinking.\nTo our knowledge, this is the first study to use multiple ML models to predict postoperative recurrence of IP. The EST model has the best predictive performance, with SHAP emphasizing several key predictive factors for IP recurrence. This study emphasizes the practicality of machine learning algorithms in predicting IP clinical outcomes, providing valuable insights into the potential for improving clinical decision-making.", 
    "abstract": "Cuproptosis, a recently identified type of programmed cell death triggered by copper, has mechanisms in Wilms tumor (WT) that are not yet fully understood. This research focuses on examining the link between WT and Cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs), with the goal of developing a predictive model for WT.\nFour gene expression datasets related to WT were sourced from the GEO database. Subsequently, expression profiles of CRGs were extracted for differential analysis and immune infiltration studies. Utilizing 105 WT samples, clusters related to Cuproptosis were identified. This involved analyzing associated immune cell infiltration and conducting functional enrichment analysis. Disease-characteristic genes were pinpointed using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Finally, the WT risk prediction model was constructed by four machine learning methods: random forest, support vector machine (SVM), generalized linear and extreme gradient strength model. The best-performing machine learning model was chosen, and a nomogram was created. The effectiveness of this predictive model was validated using methods such as the calibration curve, decision curve analysis, and by appiying it to the TARGET-GTEx dataset.\nThirteen differentially expressed Cuproptosis-related genes were identified. The infiltration level of CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells in WT children was lower than that in Normal tissue (NT) children, and the level of M0 infiltration of macrophages and T follicular helper cells was higher than that in NT children. In addition, two clusters of cuproptosis-related WT were identified. Enrichment analysis results indicated that genes in cluster 2 were primarily involved in cell division, nuclear division regulation, DNA biosynthesis process, ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. The SVM model was judged to be the optimal model using 5 genes. Its accuracy was confirmed through a calibration curve and decision curve analysis, demonstrating satisfactory performance on the TARGET-GTEx validation dataset. Additional analysis revealed that these five genes exhibited high expression in both the TARGET-GTEx validation dataset and sequencing data.\nThis research established a link between WT and Cuproptosis. It developed a predictive model for assessing the risk of WT and pinpointed five key genes associated with the disease.", 
    "abstract": "PTSD is a complex mental health condition triggered by individuals' traumatic experiences, with long-term and broad impacts on sufferers' psychological health and quality of life. Despite decades of research providing partial understanding of the pathobiological aspects of PTSD, precise neurobiological markers and imaging indicators remain challenging to pinpoint. This study employed VBM analysis and machine learning algorithms to investigate structural brain changes in PTSD patients. Data were sourced ADNI-DoD database for PTSD cases and from the ADNI database for healthy controls. Various machine learning models, including SVM, RF, and LR, were utilized for classification. Additionally, the VICI was proposed to enhance model interpretability, incorporating SHAP analysis. The association between PTSD risk genes and VICI values was also explored through gene expression data analysis. Among the tested machine learning algorithms, RF emerged as the top performer, achieving high accuracy in classifying PTSD patients. Structural brain abnormalities in PTSD patients were predominantly observed in prefrontal areas compared to healthy controls. The proposed VICI demonstrated classification efficacy comparable to the optimized RF model, indicating its potential as a simplified diagnostic tool. Analysis of gene expression data revealed significant associations between PTSD risk genes and VICI values, implicating synaptic integrity and neural development regulation. This study reveals neuroimaging and genetic characteristics of PTSD, highlighting the potential of VBM analysis and machine learning models in diagnosis and prognosis. The VICI offers a promising approach to enhance model interpretability and guide clinical decision-making. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of PTSD and provide new avenues for future diagnosis and treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) poses a serious global health threat, with its progression mechanisms not yet fully understood. While several molecular markers for NAFLD have been developed in recent years, a lack of robust evidence hampers their clinical application. Therefore, identifying novel and potent biomarkers would directly aid in the prediction, prevention, and personalized treatment of NAFLD. We downloaded NAFLD-related datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Differential expression analysis and functional analysis were initially conducted. Subsequently, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) and multiple machine learning strategies were employed to screen and identify key genes, and the diagnostic value was assessed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. We then explored the relationship between genes and immune cells using transcriptome data and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. Finally, we validated our findings in cell and mouse NAFLD models. We obtained 23 overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) across three NAFLD datasets. Enrichment analysis revealed that DEGs were associated with Apoptosis, Parathyroid hormone synthesis, secretion and action, Colorectal cancer, p53 signaling pathway, and Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids. After employing machine learning strategies, we identified one gene, pleckstrin homology like domain family A member 1 (PHLDA1), downregulated in NAFLD and showing high diagnostic accuracy. CIBERSORT analysis revealed significant associations of PHLDA1 with various immune cells. Single-cell data analysis demonstrated downregulation of PHLDA1 in NAFLD, with PHLDA1 exhibiting a significant negative correlation with macrophages. Furthermore, we found PHLDA1 to be downregulated in an in vitro hepatic steatosis cell model, and overexpression of PHLDA1 significantly reduced lipid accumulation, as well as the expression of key molecules involved in hepatic lipogenesis and fatty acid uptake, such as FASN, SCD-1, and CD36. Additionally, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) pathway enrichment analysis suggested that PHLDA1 may influence NAFLD progression through pathways such as Cytokine Cytokine Receptor Interaction, Ecm Receptor Interaction, Parkinson's Disease, and Ribosome pathways. Our conclusions were further validated in a mouse model of NAFLD. Our study reveals that PHLDA1 inhibits the progression of NAFLD, as overexpression of PHLDA1 significantly reduces lipid accumulation in cells and markedly decreases the expression of key molecules involved in liver lipogenesis and fatty acid uptake. Therefore, PHLDA1 may emerge as a novel potential target for future prediction, diagnosis, and targeted prevention of NAFLD.", 
    "abstract": "This study explored the pathogenesis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and monkeypox co-infection, identifying candidate hub genes and potential drugs using bioinformatics and machine learning. Datasets for HIV (GSE 37250) and monkeypox (GSE 24125) were obtained from the GEO database. Common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in co-infection were identified by intersecting DEGs from monkeypox datasets with genes from key HIV modules screened using Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA). After gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis and construction of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, candidate hub genes were further screened based on machine learning algorithms. Transcriptional factors (TFs) and miRNA-candidate hub gene networks were constructed to understand regulatory mechanisms and protein-drug interactions to identify potential therapeutic drugs. Seven candidate hub genes-MX2, ADAR, POLR2H, RPL5, IFI16, IFIT2, and RPS5-were identified. TFs and miRNAs associated with these hub genes, playing a key role in regulating viral infection and inflammation due to the activation of antiviral innate immunity, were also identified through network analysis. Potential therapeutic drugs were screened based on these hub genes: AZT, a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor, suppressed viral replication in HIV and monkeypox co-infection, while mefloquine inhibited inflammation due to the activation of antiviral innate immunity. In conclusion, the study identified candidate hub genes, their transcriptional regulation, signaling pathways, and small-molecule drugs in HIV and monkeypox co-infection, contributing to understanding the pathogenesis of HIV and monkeypox co-infection and informing precise therapeutic strategies.", 
    "abstract": "The Manchar Lake wetland complex, Pakistan's largest freshwater-lake, faces unprecedented ecological challenges amidst climate change and human pressures, necessitating urgent, data-driven conservation strategies. This study employs cutting-edge multi-sensor remote sensing techniques to quantify and analyze the dynamic changes in this critical ecosystem from 2015 to 2023, aiming to provide a comprehensive understanding of wetland dynamics for informed management decisions. Integrating Sentinel-1 Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) and Sentinel-2 multispectral imagery, we assessed changes in wetland extent, vegetation health, and land-use patterns using spectral indices and topographic data. Our methodology achieved classification accuracies exceeding 92% across all study years, revealing significant ecosystem fluctuations. Water body extent exhibited a non-linear trend, expanding from 318.5\u00a0km\u00b2 (5%) in 2015 to 397.0\u00a0km\u00b2 (7%) in 2019, before contracting to 369.9\u00a0km\u00b2 (6%) in 2023. This pattern was corroborated by MNDWI values. Concurrently, vegetation covers dramatically increased from 405.5\u00a0km\u00b2 (7%) in 2019 to 1081.6\u00a0km\u00b2 (18%) in 2023. The Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) reflected this trend, decreasing from 0.61 in 2015 to 0.41 in 2019, before recovering to 0.53 in 2023. Land use changes were substantial, with agricultural areas increasing from 118.4\u00a0km\u00b2 (2%) in 2015 to 498.0\u00a0km\u00b2 (8%) in 2023. SAR data consistently supported these observations. Topographic analysis, including the Topographic Wetness Index (TWI), provided crucial insights into wetland distribution and resilience. This comprehensive analysis highlights the complex interplay between natural processes and human influences shaping the Manchar-Lake ecosystem, underscoring the urgent need for adaptive management strategies in the face of rapid environmental change.", 
    "abstract": "With the increased directional drilling activities in the oil and gas industry, combined with the digital revolution amongst all industry aspects, the need became high to optimize all planning and operational drilling activities. One important step in planning a directional well is to select a directional tool that can deliver the well in a cost-effective manner. Rotary steerable systems (RSS) and positive displacement mud motors (PDM) are the two widely used tools, each with distinct advantages: RSS excels in hole cleaning, sticking avoidance and hole quality in general, while PDM offers versatility and lower operating costs. This paper presents a series of machine learning (ML) models to automate the selection of the optimal directional tool based on offset well data. By processing lithology, directional, drilling performance, tripping and casing running data, the model predicts section time and cost for upcoming wells. Historical data from offset wells were split into training and testing sets and different ML algorithms were tested to choose the most accurate one. The XGBoost algorithm provided the most accurate predictions during testing, outperforming other algorithms. The beauty of the model is that it successfully accounted for variations in formation thicknesses and drilling environment and adjusts tool recommendations accordingly. Results show that no universal rule favors either RSS or PDM; rather, tool selection is highly dependent on well-specific factors. This data-driven approach reduces human bias, enhances decision-making, and could significantly lower field development costs, particularly in aggressive drilling campaigns.", 
    "abstract": "Materials data science and machine learning (ML) are pivotal in advancing cancer treatment strategies beyond traditional methods like chemotherapy. Nanotherapeutics, which merge nanotechnology with targeted drug delivery, exemplify this advancement by offering improved precision and reduced side effects in cancer therapy. The development of these nanotherapeutic agents depends critically on understanding nanoparticle (NP) properties and their biological interactions, often analyzed through molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. This study enhances these analyses by integrating ML with MD simulations, significantly improving both prediction accuracy and computational efficiency. We introduce a comprehensive three-stage methodology for predicting the solvent-accessible surface area (SASA) of NPs, which is crucial for their therapeutic efficacy. The process involves training an ML model to forecast the many-body tensor representation (MBTR) for future time steps, applying data augmentation to increase dataset realism, and refining the SASA predictor with both augmented and original data. Results demonstrate that our methodology can predict SASA values 299 time steps ahead with a 40-fold speed improvement and a 25% accuracy increase over existing methods. Importantly, it provides a 300-fold increase in computational speed compared to traditional simulation techniques, offering substantial cost and time savings for nanotherapeutic research and development.", 
    "abstract": "To improve the accuracy of photogrammetric joint roughness coefficient (JRC) estimation, this study proposes two optimization models based on ground sample distance (GSD), point density, and the root mean square error (RMSE) of checkpoints. First, an algorithm that automatically generates spatial positions for equipment based on the convergence strategy was developed, using principles of Structure from Motion and Multi-View Stereo (SfM-MVS) and the shooting parameter selection algorithm (SPSA). Second, a portable positioning plate containing ground control points and checkpoints was designed based on optical principles, and a moving camera capture strategy guided by SPSA was proposed. Combining SPSA, portable positioning plate, and moving camera capture strategy, a photogrammetric experiment for small-scale rock samples in the field was conducted, collecting 48 datasets with different shooting parameters. Subsequently, a dataset incorporating GSD, point density, RMSE, and three JRC estimation metrics was established, revealing their correlations and sensitivities. Using seven machine learning algorithms, optimization models for photogrammetric JRC accuracy were developed, with Linear Multidimensional Regression and Gaussian Process Regression models improving JRC accuracy by an average of 85.73%. Finally, the applicability and limitations of the newly proposed method were further discussed.", 
    "abstract": "Van der Waals (vdW) dielectrics are promising for enhancing the performance of nanoscale field-effect transistors (FETs) based on two-dimensional (2D) semiconductors due to their clean interfaces. Ideal vdW dielectrics for 2D FETs require high dielectric constants and proper band alignment with 2D semiconductors. However, high-quality dielectrics remain scarce. Here, we employed a topology-scale algorithm to screen vdW materials consisting of zero-dimensional (0D), one-dimensional (1D), and 2D motifs from Materials Project database. High-throughput first-principles calculations yielded bandgaps and dielectric properties of 189 0D, 81 1D and 252 2D vdW materials. Among which, 9 highly promising dielectric candidates are suitable for MoS", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to develop a machine-learning prediction model for AKI after craniotomy and evacuation of hematoma in craniocerebral trauma. We included patients who underwent craniotomy and evacuation of hematoma due to traumatic brain injury in our hospital from January 2015 to December 2020. Ten machine learning methods were selected to model prediction, including XGBoost, Logistic Regression, Light GBM, Random Forest, AdaBoost, GaussianNB, ComplementNB, Support Vector Machines, and KNeighbors. We totally included 710 patients. 497 patients were used for the training of the machine learning models and the remaining patients were used to test the performance of the models. In the validation cohort, the AdaBoost model got the highest area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (0.909; 95% CI, 0.849-0.970) compared with other models. The AdaBoost model showed an AUC of 0.909 (95% CI, 0.849-0.970) in the validation cohort. Although there was an underestimated acute kidney injury risk for the model in the calibration curve, there was a net benefit for the AdaBoost model in the decision curve. Our machine learning model was evaluated to have a good performance in the validation cohorts and could be a useful tool in the clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "Emerging and evolving Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) lineages, adapted to changing epidemiological conditions, present unprecedented challenges to global public health systems. Here, we introduce an adapted analytical approach that complements genomic sequencing, applying a cost-effective quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR)-based assay. Viral RNA samples from SARS-CoV-2 positive cases detected by diagnostic laboratories or public health network units in Cear\u00e1, Brazil, were tracked for genomic surveillance and analyzed by using paired-end sequencing combined with integrative genomic analysis. Validation of a key structural variation was conducted with gel electrophoresis for the presence of a specific ", 
    "abstract": "Recent calls to take up data science either revolve around the superior predictive performance associated with machine learning or the potential of data science techniques for exploratory data analysis. Many believe that these strengths come at the cost of explanatory insights, which form the basis for theorization. In this paper, we show that this trade-off is false. When used as a part of a full research process, including inductive, deductive and abductive steps, machine learning can offer explanatory insights and provide a solid basis for theorization. We present a systematic five-step theory-building and theory-testing cycle that consists of: 1. Element identification (reduction); 2. Exploratory analysis (induction); 3. Hypothesis development (retroduction); 4. Hypothesis testing (deduction); and 5. Theorization (abduction). We demonstrate the usefulness of this approach, which we refer to as co-duction, in a vignette where we study firm growth with real-world observational data.", 
    "abstract": "Radiomics-based analyses encompass multiple steps, leading to ambiguity regarding the optimal approaches for enhancing model performance. This study compares the effect of several feature selection methods, machine learning (ML) classifiers, and sources of radiomic features, on models' performance for the diagnosis of clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) from bi-parametric MRI.\nTwo multi-centric datasets, with 465 and 204 patients each, were used to extract 1246 radiomic features per patient and MRI sequence. Ten feature selection methods, such as Boruta, mRMRe, ReliefF, recursive feature elimination (RFE), random forest (RF) variable importance, L1-lasso, etc., four ML classifiers, namely SVM, RF, LASSO, and boosted generalized linear model (GLM), and three sets of radiomics features, derived from T2w images, ADC maps, and their combination, were used to develop predictive models of csPCa. Their performance was evaluated in a nested cross-validation and externally, using seven performance metrics.\nIn total, 480 models were developed. In nested cross-validation, the best model combined Boruta with Boosted GLM (AUC\u2009=\u20090.71, F1\u2009=\u20090.76). In external validation, the best model combined L1-lasso with boosted GLM (AUC\u2009=\u20090.71, F1\u2009=\u20090.47). Overall, Boruta, RFE, L1-lasso, and RF variable importance were the top-performing feature selection methods, while the choice of ML classifier didn't significantly affect the results. The ADC-derived features showed the highest discriminatory power with T2w-derived features being less informative, while their combination did not lead to improved performance.\nThe choice of feature selection method and the source of radiomic features have a profound effect on the models' performance for csPCa diagnosis.\nThis work may guide future radiomic research, paving the way for the development of more effective and reliable radiomic models; not only for advancing prostate cancer diagnostic strategies, but also for informing broader applications of radiomics in different medical contexts.\nRadiomics is a growing field that can still be optimized. Feature selection method impacts radiomics models' performance more than ML algorithms. Best feature selection methods: RFE, LASSO, RF, and Boruta. ADC-derived radiomic features yield more robust models compared to T2w-derived radiomic features.", 
    "abstract": "Despite decades of pursuing health equity, racial and ethnic disparities persist in healthcare in America. For cancer specifically, one of the leading observed disparities is worse mortality among non-Hispanic Black patients compared to non-Hispanic White patients across the cancer care continuum. These real-world disparities are reflected in the data used to inform the decisions made to alleviate such inequities. Failing to account for inherently biased data underlying these observations could intensify racial cancer disparities and lead to misguided efforts that fail to appropriately address the real causes of health inequity.\nEstimate the racial/ethnic bias of machine learning models in predicting two-year survival and surgery treatment recommendation for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.\nA Cox survival model, and a LOGIT model as well as three other machine learning models for predicting surgery recommendation were trained using SEER data from NSCLC patients diagnosed from 2000-2018. Models were trained with a 70/30 train/test split (both including and excluding race/ethnicity) and evaluated using performance and fairness metrics. The effects of oversampling the training data were also evaluated.\nThe survival models show disparate impact towards non-Hispanic Black patients regardless of whether race/ethnicity is used as a predictor. The models including race/ethnicity amplified the disparities observed in the data. The exclusion of race/ethnicity as a predictor in the survival and surgery recommendation models improved fairness metrics without degrading model performance. Stratified oversampling strategies reduced disparate impact while reducing the accuracy of the model.\nNSCLC disparities are complex and multifaceted. Yet, even when accounting for age and stage at diagnosis, non-Hispanic Black patients with NSCLC are less often recommended to have surgery than non-Hispanic White patients. Machine learning models amplified the racial/ethnic disparities across the cancer care continuum (which are reflected in the data used to make model decisions). Excluding race/ethnicity lowered the bias of the models but did not affect disparate impact. Developing analytical strategies to improve fairness would in turn improve the utility of machine learning approaches analyzing population-based cancer data.", 
    "abstract": "Biological sex estimation in forensic anthropology is a crucial topic, and the patella has shown promise in this regard due to its sexual dimorphism. This study uses 12 machine learning models for sex estimation based on three patellar measurements (maximum height, breadth, and thickness). Data was collected from 180 skeletons of a contemporary Italian population (83 males and 97 females) as well as from an independent sample of 21 forensic cases (13 males and 8 females). Statistical analyses indicated that each of the variables exhibited significant sexual dimorphism. To predict biological sex, the classifiers were built using 70% of a reference sample, then tested on the remaining 30% of the original sample and then tested again on the independent sample. The different classifiers generated accuracies varied between 0.85 and 0.91 on the reference sample and between 0.71 and 0.95 for the validation sample. SVM classifier stood out with the highest accuracy and seemed the best model for our study.This study contributes to the growing application of machine learning in forensic anthropology by being the first to apply such techniques to patellar measurements in an Italian population. It aims to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of biological sex estimation from the patella, building on promising results observed with other skeletal elements.", 
    "abstract": "This study was undertaken to develop a machine learning (ML) model to forecast initial seizure onset in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) utilizing clinical and quantitative electroencephalogram (QEEG) features.\nWe developed a gradient boosting ML model (Neo-GB) that utilizes clinical features and QEEG to forecast time-dependent seizure risk. Clinical variables included cord blood gas values, Apgar scores, gestational age at birth, postmenstrual age (PMA), postnatal age, and birth weight. QEEG features included statistical moments, spectral power, and recurrence quantification analysis (RQA) features. We trained and evaluated Neo-GB on a University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) neonatal HIE dataset, augmenting training with publicly available neonatal electroencephalogram (EEG) datasets from Cork University and Helsinki University Hospitals. We assessed the performance of Neo-GB at providing dynamic and static forecasts with diagnostic performance metrics and incident/dynamic area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (iAUC) analyses. Model explanations were performed to assess contributions of QEEG features and channels to model predictions.\nThe UCSF dataset included 60 neonates with HIE (30 with seizures). In subject-level static forecasting at 30\u2009min after EEG initiation, baseline Neo-GB without time-dependent features had an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of .76 and Neo-GB with time-dependent features had an AUROC of .89. In time-dependent evaluation of the initial seizure onset within a 24-h seizure occurrence period, dynamic forecast with Neo-GB demonstrated median iAUC = .79 (interquartile range [IQR] .75-.82) and concordance index (C-index) = .82, whereas baseline static forecast at 30\u2009min demonstrated median iAUC = .75 (IQR .72-.76) and C-index = .69. Model explanation analysis revealed that spectral power, PMA, RQA, and cord blood gas values made the strongest contributions in driving Neo-GB predictions. Within the most influential EEG channels, as the preictal period advanced toward eventual seizure, there was an upward trend in broadband spectral power.\nThis study demonstrates an ML model that combines QEEG with clinical features to forecast time-dependent risk of initial seizure onset in neonatal HIE. Spectral power evolution is an early EEG marker of seizure risk in neonatal HIE.", 
    "abstract": "Handwriting recognition is a highly integrated system, demanding hardware to collect handwriting signals and software to deal with input data. Nonetheless, the design of such a system from scratch with sustainable materials and an easily accessible computing network presents significant challenges. In pursuit of this goal, a flexible, and electrically conductive wood-derived hydrogel array is developed as a handwriting input panel, enabling recognizing alphabet handwriting assisted by machine learning technique. For this, lignin extraction-refill, polypyrrole coating, and polyacrylic acid filling, endowing flexibility, and electrical conduction to wood are sequentially implemented. Subsequently, these woods are manufactured into a 5\u00a0\u00d7\u00a05 array, creating a matrix of signals upon handwriting. Efficient handwritten recognition is then achieved through appropriate manual feature extraction and algorithms with low complexity within a computing network, as demonstrated in this work, the strategic choice of expertise-based feature engineering and simplified algorithms effectively boost the overall model performance on handwriting recognition. With potential adaptability, further applications in customized wearable devices and hands-on healthcare appliances are envisioned.", 
    "abstract": "Although immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have demonstrated significant survival benefits in some patients diagnosed with gastric cancer (GC), existing prognostic markers are not universally applicable to all patients with advanced GC.\nTo investigate biomarkers that predict prognosis in GC patients treated with ICIs and develop accurate predictive models.\nData from 273 patients diagnosed with GC and distant metastasis, who un-derwent \u2265 1 cycle(s) of ICIs therapy were included in this study. Patients were randomly divided into training and test sets at a ratio of 7:3. Training set data were used to develop the machine learning models, and the test set was used to validate their predictive ability. Shapley additive explanations were used to provide insights into the best model.\nAmong the 273 patients with GC treated with ICIs in this study, 112 died within 1 year, and 129 progressed within the same timeframe. Five features related to overall survival and 4 related to progression-free survival were identified and used to construct eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), logistic regression, and decision tree. After comprehensive evaluation, XGBoost demonstrated good accuracy in predicting overall survival and progression-free survival.\nThe XGBoost model aided in identifying patients with GC who were more likely to benefit from ICIs therapy. Patient nutritional status may, to some extent, reflect prognosis.", 
    "abstract": "Cervical cancer is a cancer that remains a significant global health challenge all over the world. Due to improper screening in the early stages, and healthcare disparities, a large number of women are suffering from this disease, and the mortality rate increases day by day. Hence, in these studies, we presented a precise approach utilizing six different machine learning models (decision tree, logistic regression, na\u00efve bayes, random forest, k nearest neighbors, support vector machine), which can predict the early stage of cervical cancer by analysing 36 risk factor attributes of 858 individuals. In addition, two data balancing techniques-Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique and Adaptive Synthetic Sampling-were used to mitigate the data imbalance issues. Furthermore, Chi-square and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator are two distinct feature selection processes that have been applied to evaluate the feature rank, which are mostly correlated to identify the particular disease, and also integrate an explainable artificial intelligence technique, namely Shapley Additive Explanations, for clarifying the model outcome. The applied machine learning model outcome is evaluated by performance evaluation matrices, namely accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision, f1-score, false-positive rate and false-negative rate, and area under the Receiver operating characteristic curve score. The decision tree outperformed in Chi-square feature selection with outstanding accuracy with 97.60%, 98.73% sensitivity, 80% specificity, and 98.73% precision, respectively. During the data imbalance, DT performed 97% accuracy, 99.35% sensitivity, 69.23% specificity, and 97.45% precision. This research is focused on developing diagnostic frameworks with automated tools to improve the detection and management of cervical cancer, as well as on helping healthcare professionals deliver more efficient and personalized care to their patients.", 
    "abstract": "The integration of machine learning (ML) algorithms into the field of neurosurgery has the potential to facilitate the decision-making process for the surgeons, improve the surgical outcomes and the overall patient satisfaction rates. Reoperations for same level lumbar disc reherniation are associated with poorer outcomes and greater rate of complications.\nProper preoperative patient evaluation could reveal the individuals at higher risk of reherniation. A novel machine learning algorithm was used for the creation of a predictive scoring system for lumbar disc reherniation for patients requiring microdiscectomy without fusion.\nRetrospective chart review was completed of all adult patients that underwent microdiscectomy without fusion for symptomatic single level LDH, in a single center, over the last 3 years. 230 patients met the inclusion criteria. 19 of them required a second surgical intervention due to same level reherniation.\nUtilizing the Risk-SLIM model, the Lumbar Reherniation Score (LRS) was created. The score's accuracy was tested against other model architectures, and a standard five-fold cross-validation was performed. The LRS has AUC of 0.87, confusion matrix accuracy of 0.74, Matthews correlation coefficient of 0.36 and informedness of 0.62. The LRS individual reherniation risk probability ranges from 0% to 88.1%.\nThe LRS is a novel, easy-to-use, patient-specific tool for preoperative prediction of the individual patient-specific risk of same level symptomatic reherniation following microdiscectomy. Further validation and testing of the model is needed before it can be used in real-life patient treatment.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Artificial intelligence-machine learning (AI-ML) has demonstrated the ability to extract clinically useful information from electrocardiograms (ECGs) not available using traditional interpretation methods. There exists an extensive body of AI-ML research in fields outside of cardiology including several open-source AI-ML architectures that can be translated to new problems in an \"off-the-shelf\" manner.\nWe sought to address the limited investigation of which if any of these off-the-shelf architectures could be useful in ECG analysis as well as how and when these AI-ML approaches fail.\nWe applied 6 off-the-shelf AI-ML architectures to detect low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in a cohort of ECGs from 24,868 patients. We assessed LVEF classification and explored patient characteristics associated with inaccurate (false positive or false negative) LVEF prediction.\nWe found that all of these network architectures produced LVEF detection area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve values above 0.9 (averaged over 5 instances per network), with the ResNet 18 network performing the highest (average area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve of 0.917). We also observed that some patient-specific characteristics such as race, sex, and presence of several comorbidities were associated with lower LVEF prediction performance.\nThis demonstrates the ability of off-the-shelf AI-ML architectures to detect clinically useful information from ECGs with performance matching contemporary custom-build AI-ML architectures. We also highlighted the presence of possible biases in these AI-ML approaches in the context of patient characteristics. These findings should be considered in the pursuit of efficient and equitable deployment of AI-ML technologies moving forward.", 
    "abstract": "Social desirability bias (SDB) is a common threat to the validity of conclusions from responses to a scale or survey. There is a wide range of person-fit statistics in the literature that can be employed to detect SDB. In addition, machine learning classifiers, such as logistic regression and random forest, have the potential to distinguish between biased and unbiased responses. This study proposes a new application of these classifiers to detect SDB by considering several person-fit indices as features or predictors in the machine learning methods. The results of a Monte Carlo simulation study showed that for a single feature, applying person-fit indices directly and logistic regression led to similar classification results. However, the random forest classifier improved the classification of biased and unbiased responses substantially. Classification was improved in both logistic regression and random forest by considering multiple features simultaneously. Moreover, cross-validation indicated stable area under the curves (AUCs) across machine learning classifiers. A didactical illustration of applying random forest to detect SDB is presented.", 
    "abstract": "This scoping review aims to summarize the existing literature on how machine learning can be used to impact systemic sclerosis diagnosis, management, and treatment. Following Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) reporting guidelines, Embase, Web of Science, Medline (PubMed), IEEE Xplore, and ACM Digital Library were searched from inception to 3 March 2024, for primary literature reporting on machine learning models in any capacity regarding scleroderma. Following robust triaging, 11 retrospective studies were included in this scoping review. Three studies focused on the diagnosis of scleroderma to influence preferred management and nine studies on treatment and predicting treatment response to scleroderma. Nine studies used supervision in their machine learning model training; two used supervised and unsupervised training and one used solely unsupervised training. A total of 817 patients were included in the data sets. Seven of the included articles used patients from the United States, one from Belgium, two from Japan, and two from China. Although currently limited to retrospective studies, the results indicate that machine learning modeling may have a role in early diagnosis, management, therapeutic decision-making, and in the development of future therapies for systemic sclerosis. Prospective studies examining the use of machine learning in clinical practice are recommended to confirm the utility of machine learning in patients with systemic sclerosis.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the potential of radiomics approach for predicting No. 14v station lymph node metastasis (14vM) in gastric cancer (GC).\nThe contrast enhanced CT (CECT) images with corresponding clinical information of 288 GC patients were retrospectively collected. Patients were separated into training set (\nLR algorithm was chosen for signature construction. The radiomics signature exhibited good discrimination accuracy of 14vM with AUCs of 0.83 in the training and 0.77 in the testing set. The risk of 14vM showed significant association with higher radiomics score. A combined model exhibited increased predictive ability and good agreement in the training (AUC\u2009=\u20090.87) and testing (AUC\u2009=\u20090.85) sets.\nThe ML-based radiomics model provided a promising image biomarker for preoperative detection of 14vM and may help the surgeon to decide whether to add 14v dissection to lymphadenectomy.", 
    "abstract": "Even if we are not aware of it, machine learning techniques are part of our daily lives. It is of the utmost interest that citizens become familiar with the use of these techniques and discover their potential to solve everyday problems.\nIn this article, we describe the methodology and results of a highly replicable citizen science project that allows citizens to get closer to the scientific process and understand the potential of machine learning to solve a social problem of interest to them. For this purpose, we have chosen a problem of social relevance in contemporary societies, namely the detection of loneliness in older adults. Citizens are challenged to apply machine learning techniques to identify levels of loneliness from natural language.\nThe results of this project suggest that citizens are willing to engage in science when the challenges posed are of social interest to them. A total of 1517 citizens actively engaged in the project. A database containing 1112 texts about loneliness expressions was collected. An accuracy of 83.12% using the logistic regression algorithm and 62.23% accuracy when using the Na\u00efve Bayes algorithm was reached in detecting loneliness from texts.\nDetecting loneliness using machine learning techniques is an attractive and relevant topic that allows citizens to be involved in science and introduces them to machine learning practices. The methodology of this project can be replicated in other places around the world.", 
    "abstract": "This article presents a dataset examining the impact of Graphite Nanoplatelets (GNP), injection pressure, and injection temperature on the mechanical properties of High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) composites. The study uses an ensemble machine learning approach to build a predictive model for response variables: tensile modulus, toughness, and hardness. The model used was a Random Forest regressor, which was robust to outliers and data distribution types. Grid Search CV and Random Search CV were used for hyperparameter tuning, and predictive analysis of model parameters was conducted using both. The response variables were divided into high, medium, and low classes based on the quartile distributions. A Decision Tree classifier was used to derive rules for each class. These methods and the comprehensive dataset and analysis offer a robust foundation for future research in polymer composites. The insights can be leveraged with further research to develop the highest grade of polymer composite products. This might include new applications, improved performance, or cost reduction by optimizing the resources. This research may help in developing a detailed concept for the viable ideas and testing of a new polymer-based product thus bringing a significant impact in the polymer industry as a whole.", 
    "abstract": "This letter comments on the article that developed and tested a machine learning model that predicts lymphovascular invasion/perineural invasion status by combining clinical indications and spectral computed tomography characteristics accurately. We review the research content, methodology, conclusions, strengths and weaknesses of the study, and introduce follow-up research to this work.", 
    "abstract": "Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy is a promising treatment for cancer. However, the response rate to ICI therapy in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients is low (approximately 30%). Thus, an approach to predict whether a patient will benefit from ICI therapy is required. This study aimed to design a classifier based on circulating indicators to identify patients suitable for ICI therapy.\nThis retrospective study included HCC patients who received immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy between March 2017 and September 2023 at Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital and Jinling Hospital. The levels of the 17 serum biomarkers and baseline patients' characters were assessed to discern meaningful circulating indicators related with survival benefits using random forest. A prognostic model was then constructed to predict survival of patients after treatment.\nA total of 369 patients (mean age 56, median follow-up duration 373 days,) were enrolled in this study. Among the 17 circulating biomarkers, 11 were carefully selected to construct a classifier. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.724. Notably, patients classified into the low-risk group exhibited a more positive prognosis (\nCirculating biomarkers are useful in predicting therapeutic outcomes and can help in making clinical decisions regarding the use of ICI therapy.", 
    "abstract": "We aim to examine and reestablish the correlational and linear regression relationships, as well as the predictive value, between the significant facial and tongue features and the metabolic parameters in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).\nFrom March to May 2024, we studied 269 patients with T2DM in the endocrinology department of Shanghai Pudong Hospital. The patients' facial and tongue characteristics were sampling by a tongue imaging device equipped with artificial intelligence (AI) (XiMaLife, Sinology, China) of automated and advanced machine learning algorithms. Then, the imaging features were examined in relation to the blood examination.\nMultiple facial and tongue features, as well as dimensional facial and tongue color parameters, were significantly correlated with glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) (r < 0.3, p < 0.05), glycated albumin (GA) (-0.20 < 0.30, p < 0.05), C-peptide (-0.20.20, p < 0.05), plasma insulin (r < 0.30, p < 0.05), fasting plasma glucose (FPG) (r < 0.3, p < 0.05), significant hepatic and renal function indicators (-0.30 < r < 0.20, p<0.05), cardiac injury markers (-0.30 < r < 0.30, p < 0.05), tumor markers (-0.5 < r < 0.5, p < 0.05), thyroid function (-0.15 < r < 0.55, p < 0.05), and blood cell count, including white blood cells (r < 0.2, p < 0.05), and hemoglobin (Hb) (-0.30 < r < 0.3, 0.0001. The correlational results demonstrated that the tongue's characteristics and signs\u00a0may be linked with the dynamic of the metabolic status of T2DM. In order to examine the causal relationships, we performed linear regression analyses, which revealed that various facial and tongue imaging parameters partially determined the metabolic indicators. The predictive value of imaging features was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) to assess metabolic status in T2DM.\nThis study demonstrated that metabolic status, renal and hepatic, cardiac, and thyroid function, the proportion of blood cells, and Hb in T2DM were intimately associated with facial and tongue features. The precise analysis of facial and tongue features through AI and advanced machine learning could be used to predict T2DM's conditions and progression.", 
    "abstract": "PolyCystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) poses significant challenges to women's reproductive health due to its diagnostic complexity arising from a variety of symptoms, including hirsutism, anovulation, pain, obesity, hyperandrogenism, and oligomenorrhea, necessitating multiple clinical tests. Leveraging Artificial Intelligence (AI) in healthcare offers several benefits that can significantly impact patient care, streamline operations, and improve medical outcomes overall. This study presents an Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI)-driven PCOS smart predictor, structured as a hierarchical ensemble consisting of two tiers of Random Forest classifiers following extensive analysis of seven conventional classifiers and two additional stacking ensemble classifiers. An open-source data set comprising numerical parametric features linked to PCOS for classifier training was used. Moreover, to identify essential features for PCOS prediction three feature selection methods: Threshold-driven Optimized Principal Component Analysis (TOPCA), Optimized Salp Swarm (OSSM), and Threshold-driven Optimized Mutual Information Method (TOMIM) were fine-tuned through thresholding and improvisation to detect diverse attribute sets with varying numbers and combinations. Notably, the two-level Random Forest classifier model outperformed others with a remarkable 99.31\u00a0% accuracy by employing the top 17 features selected through the Threshold-driven Optimized Mutual Information Method (TOMIM) along with anoverallaccuracy of 99.32\u00a0% with 8 fold cross validation for 25 runs. The Smart predictor, constructed using Shapash - a Python library for Explainable Artificial Intelligence - was utilized to deploy the two-level Random Forest classifier model. Ensuring transparency and result reliability, visualizations from robust Explainable AI libraries were employed at different prediction stages for all considered classifiers in this study.", 
    "abstract": "To enhance the accuracy of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) diagnosis using contrast-enhanced (CE) US, the American College of Radiology developed the CEUS Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS). However, the system still exhibits limitations in distinguishing between HCC and non-HCC lesions.\nTo investigate the viability of employing machine learning methods based on quantitative parameters of contrast-enhanced ultrasound for distinguishing HCC within LR-M nodules.\nThis retrospective analysis was conducted on pre-treatment CEUS data from liver nodule patients across multiple centers between January 2013 and June 2022. Quantitative analysis was performed using CEUS images, and the machine learning diagnostic models based on quantitative parameters were utilized for the classification diagnosis of LR-M nodules. The performance of the model was assessed using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) and compared with the performance of four radiologists.\nThe training and internal testing datasets comprised 168 patients (median age, 53 years [IQR, 18 years]), while the external testing datasets from two other centers included 110 patients (median age, 54 years [IQR, 16 years]). In the internal independent test set, the top-performing Random Forest model achieved an AUC of 0.796 (95%CI: 0.729-0.853) for diagnosing HCC. This model exhibited a sensitivity of 0.752 (95%CI: 0.750-0.755) and a specificity of 0.761 (95%CI: 0.758-0.764), outperforming junior radiologists who achieved an AUC of 0.619 (95%CI: 0.543-0.691, \nSignificant differences in contrast-enhanced ultrasound quantitative parameters are observed between HCC and non-HCC lesions. Machine learning models leveraging these parameters effectively distinguish HCC categorized as LR-M, offering a valuable adjunct for the accurate classification of liver nodules within the CEUS LI-RADS framework.", 
    "abstract": "Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) represents a significant global health burden without established curative therapies. Early detection and preventive strategies are crucial for effective MASLD management. This study aimed to develop and validate machine-learning (ML) algorithms for accurate MASLD screening in a geographically diverse, large-scale population.\nData from the prospective Fasa Cohort Study, initiated in rural Fars province, Iran (March 2014), were employed for this purpose. The required data were collected using blood tests, questionnaires, liver ultrasonography, and physical examinations. A two-step approach identified key predictors from over 100 variables: (1) statistical selection using mean decrease Gini in random forest and (2) incorporation of clinical expertise for alignment with known MASLD risk factors. The hold-out validation approach (with a 70/30 train/validation split) was utilized, along with 5-fold cross-validation on the validation set. Logistic regression, Na\u00efve Bayes, support vector machine, and light gradient-boosting machine (LightGBM) algorithms were compared for model construction with the same input variables based on area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), and accuracy.\nA total of 6,180 adults (52.7% female) were included in the study, categorized into 4816 non-MASLD and 1364 MASLD cases with a mean age (\u00b1standard deviation [SD]) of 48.12 (\u00b19.61) and 49.47 (\u00b19.15) years, respectively. Logistic regression outperformed other ML algorithms, achieving an accuracy of 0.88 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.86-0.89) and an AUC of 0.92 (95% CI: 0.90-0.93). Among more than 100 variables, the key predictors included waist circumference, body mass index (BMI), hip circumference, wrist circumference, alanine aminotransferase levels, cholesterol, glucose, high-density lipoprotein, and blood pressure.\nIntegration of ML in MASLD management holds significant promise, particularly in resource-limited rural settings. Additionally, the relative importance assigned to each predictor, particularly prominent contributors such as waist circumference and BMI, offers valuable insights into MASLD prevention, diagnosis, and treatment strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Pharmacokinetics (PK) is the result of a complex interplay between compound properties and physiology, and a detailed characterization of a molecule's PK during preclinical research is key to understanding the relationship between applied dose, exposure, and pharmacological effect. Predictions of human PK based on the chemical structure of a compound are highly desirable to avoid advancing compounds with unfavorable properties early on and to reduce animal testing, but data to train such models are scarce. To address this problem, we combine well-established physiologically based pharmacokinetic models with Deep Learning models for molecular property prediction into a hybrid model to predict PK parameters for small molecules directly from chemical structure. Our model predicts exposure after oral and intravenous administration with fold change errors of 1.87 and 1.86, respectively, in healthy subjects and 2.32 and 2.23, respectively, in patients with various diseases. Unlike pure Deep Learning models, the hybrid model can predict endpoints on which it was not trained. We validate this extrapolation capability by predicting full concentration-time profiles for compounds with published PK data. Our model enables early selection and prioritization of the most promising drug candidates, which can lead to a reduction in animal testing during drug discovery and development.", 
    "abstract": "3D Printing (3DP) of pharmaceuticals could drastically transform the manufacturing of medicines and facilitate the widespread availability of personalised healthcare. However, with increasing awareness of the environmental damage of manufacturing, 3DP must be eco-friendly, especially when it comes to carbon emissions. This study investigated the environmental effects of pharmaceutical 3DP. Using Design of Experiments (DoE) and Machine Learning (ML), we looked at energy use in pharmaceutical Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM). From 136 experimental runs across four common dosage forms, we identified several key parameters that contributed to energy consumption, and consequently CO", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning (ML) models recently led to major breakthroughs in predictive tasks in the natural sciences. Yet their benefits for the social sciences are less evident, as even high-profile studies on the prediction of life trajectories have shown to be largely unsuccessful - at least when measured in traditional criteria of scientific success. This paper tries to shed light on this remarkable performance gap. Comparing two social science case studies to a paradigm example from the natural sciences, we argue that, in addition to explanation, prediction is an important goal of social science - and we identify constraints that impede pure ML prediction from being successful in that field. As a remedy, we outline elements of an integrative modelling approach that combines explanatory models and predictive ML models.", 
    "abstract": "The disease progression and treatment options of leukemia between different subtypes vary considerably, emphasizing the importance of phenotyping. However, early typing of leukemia remains challenging due to the lack of highly sensitive and specific analytical tools. Herein, we propose a SERS-based platform for the classification of acute lymphoblastic T-cell leukemia (T-ALL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) through the combination of machine learning and microfluidic chips. The ordered arrays in microfluidic channels reshape the microscopic flow field and contacting interfaces, facilitating the uniform and efficient capture of tumor cells. To enable phenotypic analysis, spectrally orthogonal SERS aptamer nanoprobes were applied, providing composite spectral signatures of individual cells in accordance with surface protein expression. Further, machine learning algorithms were employed to analyze the SERS signatures automatically, resulting in an accuracy of 98.6\u00a0% for 73 clinical blood samples. The results demonstrate that this platform holds promising potential for clinical leukemia diagnosis and precision medicine.", 
    "abstract": "Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) is a widely used biodegradable polymer in drug delivery and nanoparticle (NP) formulation due to its controlled drug release properties and safety profiles. Among the methods available for NP production, nanoprecipitation is distinguished by its simplicity and scalability. However, it requires careful optimisation to achieve the desired NP characteristics, making the process potentially lengthy and costly. This study aimed to assess and compare the predictive performance of Design of Experiments (DOE) and Machine Learning (ML) models for the optimisation of PLGA nanoparticle size and zeta potential produced by nanoprecipitation. Various ML methods were employed to predict particle size, with Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) identified as the best performing. The key finding is that integrating ML with DOE provides deeper insights into the dataset than either method alone. While ML outperformed DOE in predictive performance, as evidenced by lower root mean squared error values and higher coefficients of determination, both methods struggled to accurately predict zeta potential, generating models with high errors. However, ML proved more effective in identifying the parameters that most significantly influence NP size, even with a smaller DOE dataset. Combining DOE datasets with ML for parameter importance was particularly advantageous in situations where data is limited, offering superior predictive power and the potential to streamline experimental design and optimisation. These results suggest that the synergistic use of ML and DOE can lead to more robust feature analysis and improved optimisation outcomes, particularly for NP size. This integrated approach can enhance the accuracy of predictions and supports more efficient experimental design, streamlining nanoparticle production processes, especially under resource-constrained conditions.", 
    "abstract": "RNA-based sample discrimination and classification can be used to provide biological insights and/or distinguish between clinical groups. However, finding informative differences between sample groups can be challenging due to the multidimensional and noisy nature of sequencing data. Here, we apply a machine learning approach for hierarchical discrimination and classification of samples with high-dimensional miRNA expression data. Our protocol comprises data preprocessing, unsupervised learning, feature selection, and machine-learning-based hierarchical classification, alongside open-source MATLAB code.", 
    "abstract": "Repair of rotator cuff tear is not always feasible, depending on the severity. Although several studies have investigated factors related to reparability and various methods to predict it, inconsistent scoring methods and a lack of validation have hindered the utility of these methods.\nTo develop machine learning models to predict the reparability of rotator cuff tears, compare them with previous scoring systems, and provide an accessible online model.\nCohort study; Level of evidence, 3.\nArthroscopic rotator cuff repairs for tears with both anteroposterior and mediolateral diameters >1 cm on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging were included and divided into a training set (70%) and an internal validation set (30%). For external validation, rotator cuff repairs performed by 2 different surgeons were included in a test set. Machine learning models and a newly adjusted scoring system were developed using the training set. The performance of the models including the adjusted scoring system and 2 previous scoring systems were compared using the test set. The performance was assessed using metrics such as the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) and compared using the net reclassification improvement based on the adjusted scoring system.\nA total of 429 patients were included for the training and internal validation set, and 112 patients were included for the test set. An elastic-net logistic regression demonstrated the best performance, with an AUROC of 0.847 and net reclassification improvement of 0.071, compared with the adjusted scoring system in the test set. The AUROC of the adjusted scoring system was 0.786, and the AUROCs of the previous scoring systems were 0.757 and 0.687. The elastic-net logistic regression was transformed into an accessible online model.\nThe performance of the machine learning model, which provides a probability estimation for rotator cuff reparability, is comparable with that of the adjusted scoring system. Nevertheless, when deploying prediction models beyond the original cohort, regardless of whether they rely on machine learning or scoring systems, clinicians should exercise caution and not rely solely on the output of the model.", 
    "abstract": "Novel methodologies are now essential for identification of antibiotic resistant pathogens in order to resist them. Here, we are presenting a model, MACI (Machine learning-based Antibiotic resistance gene-specific drug Class Identification) that can take metagenomic fragments as input and predict the drug class of antibiotic resistant genes. In our study, we trained a model using the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database, containing 5138 representative sequences across 134 drug classes. Among these classes, 23 dominated, contributing 85% of the sequence data. The model achieved an average precision of 0.8389\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.0747 and recall of 0.8197\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.0782 for these 23 drug classes. Additionally, it exhibited higher performance (precision and recall: 0.8817\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.0540 and 0.8620\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.0493) for predicting multidrug resistant classes compared to single drug resistant categories (0.7923\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.0669 and 0.7737\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.0794). The model also showed promising results when tested on an independent data. We then analysed these 23 drug classes to identify class-specific overlapping nucleotide patterns. Five significant drug classes, viz. \"Carbapenem; cephalosporin; penam\", \"cephalosporin\", \"cephamycin\", \"cephalosporin; monobactam; penam; penem\", and \"fluoroquinolone\" were identified, and their patterns aligned with the functional domains of antibiotic resistance genes. These class-specific patterns play a pivotal role in rapidly identifying drug classes with antibiotic resistance genes. Further analysis revealed that bacterial species containing these five drug classes are associated with well-known multidrug resistance properties.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "In this study, two nanomaterials with excellent adsorption capacities were developed to remove heavy metals efficiently from wastewater. Manganese dioxide MnO", 
    "abstract": "The biogeochemical cycling of sulfur (S) in paddy soil influences cadmium (Cd) and arsenic (As) migration. However, the impact of S application on Cd and As within the soil-rice system has not been fully explored. This study aimed to examine the effect of S application on Cd/As soil-rice system dynamics by conducting an extensive meta-analysis of 322 sets of observational data from 46 publications, which were published between 2004 and 2023. Furthermore, a machine learning model was only used to forecast the potential influence of S on Cd within the soil-rice system rather than the influence of As due to the limited data samples. The results indicated that the basal application of S mainly reduced the accumulation of Cd and As in the grains [Cd: 29.00\u00a0% (28.48\u00a0% to 29.52\u00a0%); As: 38.31\u00a0% (37.79\u00a0% to 38.85\u00a0%)] by the coupling effect of promoting rice growth 40.87\u00a0% (40.61\u00a0%-41.14\u00a0%) and reducing the soil bioavailable Cd/As by 18.20\u00a0% (18.05\u00a0% to 18.36\u00a0%)/19.59\u00a0% (19.44\u00a0% to 19.75\u00a0%). However, the efficacy of actual field farmland remediation is often suboptimal because the actual soil physical and chemical properties frequently do not meet the ideal conditions [pH: 6.5-7.5, Total S: < 200\u00a0mg/kg, soil organic matter (SOM): 30-40\u00a0g/kg, Total Fe: 20-30\u00a0g/kg] that are required to mitigate Cd and As accumulation in rice grains. Notably, the random forest machine learning model achieved an acceptable level of accuracy when compared to the excessive linear regression simulation. The model suggested that the decrease in the Cd/As accumulation in the rice was due to the soil available S content, which was primarily influenced by S application. This study provides novel insights for managers and researchers for the amelioration of Cd/As-contaminated farmland soil.", 
    "abstract": "Plasma protein binding (PPB) is closely related to pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and drug toxicity. Existing models for predicting PPB often suffer from low prediction accuracy and poor interpretability, especially for high PPB compounds, and are most often not experimentally validated. Here, we carried out a strict data curation protocol, and applied consensus modeling to obtain a model with a coefficient of determination of 0.90 and 0.91 on the training set and the test set, respectively. This model (available on the OCHEM platform https://ochem.eu/article/29) was further retrospectively validated for a set of 63 poly-fluorinated molecules and prospectively validated for a set of 25 highly diverse compounds, and its performance for both these sets was superior to that of the other previously reported models. Furthermore, we identified the physicochemical and structural characteristics of high and low PPB molecules for further structural optimization. Finally, we provide practical and detailed recommendations for structural optimization to decrease PPB binding of lead compounds.", 
    "abstract": "Bioequivalence risk assessment as an extension of quality risk management lacks examples of quantitative approaches to risk assessment at an early stage of generic drug development. The aim of our study was to develop a model-based approach for bioequivalence risk assessment that uses pharmacokinetic and physicochemical characteristics of drugs as predictors and would standardize the first step of risk assessment.\nThe Sandoz in-house bioequivalence database of 128 bioequivalence studies with poorly soluble drugs (23.5% non-bioequivalent) was used to train and validate the model. Four different modeling approaches, random forest, XGBoost, logistic regression and na\u00efve Bayes, were compared.\nAmong the best performing machine learning models, random forest was selected and optimized for the number of features, resulting in an accuracy of 84% on the test data set. The most important features for prediction were those related to solubility (dose number, acid dissociation constant), absorption and elimination rate, effective permeability, variability of pharmacokinetic endpoints, and absolute bioavailability. All features had a conceivable influence on the model predictions.\nThe model was used to develop a bioequivalence risk assessment approach to categorize drugs in early development into high, medium or low risk classes.", 
    "abstract": "To assess the efficacy of machine learning models (MLMs) in identifying factors associated with the need for permanent ventricular shunt placement in patients experiencing intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) who require emergency cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion.\nA retrospective review was performed on patients with ICH requiring urgent CSF diversion who were admitted to our facility between July 2009 and May 2023. A binary logistic regression analysis was carried out to determine independent predictors linked to the development of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus following ICH. Five different machine learning models-random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), k-nearest neighbor (k-NN), logistic regression (LR), and Adaptive Boosting (AdaBoost)-were utilized to predict the need for permanent shunting in those with spontaneous ICH necessitating emergency CSF diversion. Additionally, RF techniques were applied to identify the factors affecting the need for permanent ventricular shunt placement in these patients.\nA total of 578 patients were included in the analysis. Shunt-dependent hydrocephalus occurred in 121 individuals (20.9%). In the multivariate analysis, the Graeb Score, the length of time the external ventricular drain (EVD) was in place, and an elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) greater than 30 mm Hg were significant predictors for the need for permanent CSF diversion (p<0.05). All predictive models showed commendable performance, with RF achieving the highest accuracy (0.921), followed by SVM (0.906), k-NN (0.889), LR (0.881), and AdaBoost (0.823). RF also excelled over the other models in terms of sensitivity and specificity, with a sensitivity of 0.912 and specificity of 0.892. The area under the curve (AUC) values for RF, SVM, k-NN, LR, and AdaBoost were recorded at 0.903, 0.820, 0.804, 0.801, and 0.798, respectively.\nThis research demonstrates that machine learning models can effectively predict the need for permanent CSF diversion in patients with ICH who underwent EVD placement for urgent CSF diversion, offering important prognostic insights that could facilitate early intervention and lead to potential cost reductions.", 
    "abstract": "Roller compaction is a crucial unit operation in pharmaceutical manufacturing, with its ribbon porosity widely recognised as a critical quality attribute. Terahertz spectroscopy has emerged as a fast and non-destructive technique to measure porosity in pharmaceutical products. From a sensing perspective, the irregular shape and uneven surface of fragmented ribbon pieces can affect the accuracy and precision of the measurements, particularly for techniques that probe only a small sampling volume. It is known that the porosity is not uniform within the ribbon structure, with variations expected across the width of the ribbon and in the microstructure corresponding to its surface texture. However, typical pharmaceutical analysis methods, such as envelope density, only report an average bulk porosity, are slow to operate and limited in accuracy. To address this challenge, we developed and trained convolutional neural network models using THz spectra as input to classify four types of topography typically encountered in ribbons: ridge, valley, flat plane and edge points. The classifiers achieved 91% validation accuracy in both identifying outliers and differentiating between ribbons of smooth and knurled surfaces. For the more challenging task of distinguishing between the ridges and valleys of knurled surfaces, an 81% testing accuracy was achieved. Once each measurement is paired with its topography, resolving the density distribution within the sample is possible. This data can be combined to arrive at an average bulk porosity value compatible with conventional pharmaceutical analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Indoor fungal contamination poses significant challenges to human health and indoor air quality. This study addresses an effective approach using mass spectrometry and machine learning to identify microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) originated from indoor fungi. Three common indoor fungi, including Penicillium Chrysogenum, Cladosporium cladosporioides, and Aspergillus niger, were cultivated on various substrates, namely potato dextrose agar, wallpaper, and silicone. Solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GC-MS) was used to analyze MVOCs together, along with the VOCs (namely, non-MVOCs) emitted by various indoor materials (wallpaper adhesives, diffusers, particle board, oriented strand board, medium-density fiberboard, bleach, print cartridges, and cosmetic creams). This study demonstrates the significant effectiveness of machine learning, particularly the random forest model, in accurately distinguishing MVOCs from non-MVOCs. Furthermore, specific VOCs such as benzocyclobutane, styrene, ethanol, benzene, and 2-butanone emerged as consistent indicators of fungal presence across different fungal species and substrates. A simplified random forest model incorporating these key VOCs achieved a high accuracy of 96.2%, highlighting their practical significance in fungal contamination detection. This integrated approach combining analytical chemistry and machine learning offers a promising strategy for the comprehensive and reliable assessment of indoor fungal contamination.", 
    "abstract": "Our brain undergoes significant micro- and macroscopic changes throughout its life cycle. It is therefore crucial to understand the effect of aging on the mechanical properties of the brain in order to develop accurate personalized simulations and diagnostic tools. Here we systematically probed the mechanical behavior of n=439 brain tissue samples in tension and compression, in different anatomical regions, for different axon orientations, across five age groups. We used Bayesian statistics to characterize the relation between brain age and mechanical properties and quantify uncertainties. Our results, based on our experimental data and material parameters for the isotropic Ogden and the anisotropic Gasser-Ogden-Holzapfel models, reveal a non-linear relationship between age and mechanics across the life cycle of the porcine brain. Both tensile and compressive shear moduli reached peak values ranging from 0.4-1.0 kPa in tension to 0.16-0.32 kPa in compression at three years of age. Anisotropy was most pronounced at six months, and then decreased. These results represent an important step in understanding age-dependent changes in the mechanical properties of brain tissue and provide the scientific basis for more accurate and realistic computational brain simulations. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: In this paper, we investigate the age-dependent mechanical properties of brain tissue based on different deformation modes, anatomical regions, and axon orientations. Hierarchical Bayesian modeling was used to identify isotropic and anisotropic material parameters. The study reveals a nonlinear relationship between shear modulus, degree of anisotropy, and tension-compression asymmetry over the life cycle of the brain. By demonstrating the non-linearity of these relationships, the study fills a significant knowledge gap in current research. This work is a fundamental step in accurately characterizing the complex relationship between brain aging and mechanical properties.", 
    "abstract": "Subjective clinical evaluations are deeply rooted in medical practice. Recent advances in sensor technology facilitate the acquisition of extensive amounts of objective physiological data that can serve as a surrogate for subjective assessments. Along with sensor technology, a branch of artificial intelligence, known as machine learning, has provided decisive advances in several areas of medicine due to its pattern recognition and outcome prediction abilities. The assimilation of machine learning algorithms into sensor technology can substantially improve our current diagnostic and treatment competencies. This review explores available data on the use of sensor technology and machine learning in areas of interest for plastic surgeons, updates current knowledge on the most recent technological advances, and provides a new perspective on the field.", 
    "abstract": "Infrared spectroscopy is a valuable tool for forensic examinations because it realizes nondestructive and rapid analysis. Recent advancements in machine learning have facilitated the development of chemometrics, extending to applications in questioned document examination. In this study, support vector machine (SVM), feedforward neural network (FNN), and random forest (RF) models were constructed using the infrared spectral data of document paper samples to identify the manufacturer of document paper products. For model training, the infrared (IR) spectral regions were selected based on their variable importance as determined by the RF models. Narrowing the IR spectral data within the range of 1500-800\u00a0cm", 
    "abstract": "Prostate cancer represents the second most prevalent form of cancer in males globally. In the diagnosis of prostate cancer, the most commonly utilised biomarker is prostate-specific antigen (PSA). It is unfortunate that approximately 25\u00a0% of men with elevated PSA levels do not have cancer, and that approximately 20\u00a0% of patients with prostate cancer have normal serum PSA levels. Accordingly, a more sensitive methodology must still be identified. It is imperative that new diagnostic methods should be non-invasive, cost-effective, rapid, and highly sensitive. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) is a technique that fulfils all of the aforementioned criteria. Consequently, the present study used FTIR to assess dried serum samples obtained from a cohort of prostate cancer patients (n\u00a0=\u00a053) and a control group of healthy individuals (n\u00a0=\u00a040). Furthermore, this study proposes FTIR markers of prostate cancer obtained from serum. For this purpose, FTIR spectra of dried serum were measured and analysed using statistical, chemometric and machine learning (ML) algorithms including decision trees C5.0, Random Forest (RF), k-Nearest Neighbours (kNN) and Support Vector Machine (SVM). The FTIR spectra of serum collected from patients suffering from prostate cancer exhibited a reduced absorbance values of peaks derived from phospholipids, amides, and lipids. However, these differences were not statistically significant. Furthermore, principal component analysis (PCA) demonstrated that it is challenging to distinguish serum samples from healthy and non-healthy patients. The ML algorithms demonstrated that FTIR was capable of differentiating serum collected from both analysed groups of patients with high accuracy (values between 0.74 and 0.93 for the range from 800\u00a0cm", 
    "abstract": "There is limited evidence that heavy metals exposure contributes to osteoporosis. Multi-parameter scoring machine learning (ML) techniques were developed using National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data to predict osteoporosis based on heavy metal exposure levels. For generating an optimal predictive model for osteoporosis, 12\u202fML models were used. Identification was carried out using the model that performed the best. For interpretation of models, Shapley additive explanation (SHAP) methods and partial dependence plots (PDP) were integrated into a pipeline and incorporated into the ML pipeline. By regressing osteoporosis on survey cycles, logistic regression was used to evaluate linear trends in osteoporosis over time. For the purpose of training and validating predictive models, 5745 eligible participants were randomly selected into training and testing set. It was evident from the results that the gradient boosting decision tree model performed the best among the predictive models, attributing to an accuracy rate of 89.40\u202f% in the testing set. Based on the model results, the area under the curve and F1 score were 0.88 and 0.39, respectively. As a result of the SHAP analysis, urinary Co, urinary Tu, blood Cd, and urinary Hg levels were identified as the most influential factors influencing osteoporosis. Urinary Co (0.20-6.10\u202f\u03bcg/mg creatinine), urinary Tu (0.06-1.93\u202f\u03bcg/mg creatinine), blood Cd (0.07-0.50\u202f\u03bcg/L), and urinary Hg (0.06-0.75\u202f\u03bcg/mg creatinine) levels displayed a distinctive upward trend with risk of osteoporosis as values increased. Our analysis revealed that urinary Co, urinary Tu, blood Cd, and urinary Hg played a significant role in predictability.", 
    "abstract": "Nanofiltration (NF) and reverse osmosis (RO) membranes play an increasingly important role in the removal of organic micropollutants (OMPs), which puts higher demands on the customization of membranes suitable for OMPs removal based on the rejection mechanisms. Here, the pathways of OMPs-targeted optimization for membranes were constructed by using machine learning (ML) to capture the correlations between OMPs removal efficiency with properties of membranes and OMPs. Through expertise assistance and rigorous modeling methodology, an accurate and robust Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) model was established, which could well recognize the dominant rejection mechanisms of OMPs (i.e., the size exclusion effect and electrostatic interactions). An exemplary application to another dataset of several high-risk OMPs showed how the optimized model could be used to estimate the overall efficiency of OMPs risk control and, more importantly, to provide quantitative guidance on membrane properties for specific removal targets. The satisfying prediction results demonstrated the good generalization of the ML model and consequently its ability to sensitively define the ideal membrane properties for the targeted removal of these (and any other concerned) OMPs. This study provides a feasible and universal ML-based framework to achieve the tailored selection and design of NF/RO membranes for OMPs risk control.", 
    "abstract": "This scientific paper presents a novel approach to explore and predict the potential of imidazole-based organic dyes for use in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells (DSSCs) using a machine learning web application. The design of efficient and cost-effective organic dyes is critical to enhance the performance of DSSCs. Traditional experimental methods are time-consuming and resource-intensive, making it challenging to screen a large number of potential dyes. In this study, we propose a machine learning-based approach to accelerate the discovery process by predicting the photovoltaic performance of imidazole-based organic dyes. Machin learning predictions provide valuable insights into the expected PCE% and behaviors of the molecules toward DSSCs. Based on the RDKit library, several fingerprints such as Molecular ACCess System, Avalon, Daylight, Pharmacophore and Morgan with different radius (r2, r3, r4), were studied. In addition, more than 20 ML algorithms using different cross validation (3, 5, 7, 10) were also evaluated. Among of these, Deep Neural Network models of MLPRegressor algorithm based on the daylight fingerprint shows a significant coefficient of determination combined with the lowest errors. Utilize the trained ML models to screen of 50 million SMILE structure for identify promising imidazole and nitrogen-containing derivative as a doner group. By replacing the donor groups in the well-known MK2 dye structure with the top imidazole derivatives proposed by machine learning, significant improvements in PCE were observed, increasing from 7.70% to as high as 11.49%, representing nearly a 50% enhancement over the control. DFT calculations confirm the ML predictions and clarify the significantly higher oscillator strength and charge transfer properties of MK2-DM1, compared to MK2. This result provides a promising pathway for developing new dye materials that can push the efficiency limits of DSSCs, leading to more efficient solar energy conversion technologies in the future. In addition, a developed web application offers a user-friendly interface for researchers to input their molecular structures and obtain PCE% predictions toward DSSCs. This information can guide researchers in designing a new imidazole dye with high photovoltaic performance to validate and refine the predictions without time consuming.", 
    "abstract": "Viruses are widely recognized to be intricately associated with both solid and hematological malignancies in humans. The primary goal of this research is to elucidate the interplay of genes between SARS-CoV-2 infection and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), with a preliminary investigation into their clinical significance and underlying molecular mechanisms. Transcriptome data for SARS-CoV-2 infection and LUAD were sourced from public databases. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection were identified and subsequently overlapped with TCGA-LUAD DEGs to discern the crosstalk genes (CGs). In addition, CGs pertaining to both diseases were further refined using LUAD TCGA and GEO datasets. Univariate Cox regression was conducted to identify genes associated with LUAD prognosis, and these genes were subsequently incorporated into the construction of a prognosis signature using 10 different machine learning algorithms. Additional investigations, including tumor mutation burden assessment, TME landscape, immunotherapy response assessment, as well as analysis of sensitivity to antitumor drugs, were also undertaken. We discovered the risk stratification based on the prognostic signature revealed that the low-risk group demonstrated superior clinical outcomes (p\u2009<\u20090.001). Gene set enrichment analysis results predominantly exhibited enrichment in pathways related to cell cycle. Our analyses also indicated that the low-risk group displayed elevated levels of infiltration by immunocytes (p\u2009<\u20090.001) and superior immunotherapy response (p\u2009<\u20090.001). In our study, we reveal a close association between CGs and the immune microenvironment of LUAD. This provides preliminary insight for further exploring the mechanism and interaction between the two diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Drug delivery systems efficiently and safely administer therapeutic agents to specific body sites. Liposomes, spherical vesicles made of phospholipid bilayers, have become a powerful tool in this field, especially with the rise of microfluidic manufacturing during the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite its efficiency, microfluidic liposomal production poses challenges, often requiring laborious, optimization on a case-by-case basis. This is due to a lack of comprehensive understanding and robust methodologies, compounded by limited data on microfluidic production with varying lipids. Artificial intelligence offers promise in predicting lipid behaviour during microfluidic production, with the still unexploited potential of streamlining development. Herein we employ machine learning to predict critical quality attributes and process parameters for microfluidic-based liposome production. Validated models predict liposome formation, size, and production parameters, significantly advancing our understanding of lipid behaviour. Extensive model analysis enhanced interpretability and investigated underlying mechanisms, supporting the transition to microfluidic production. Unlocking the potential of machine learning in drug development can accelerate pharmaceutical innovation, making drug delivery systems more adaptable and accessible.", 
    "abstract": "Diabetes management is often complicated by comorbidities, requiring complex medication regimens that increase the risk of drug-drug interactions (DDIs), potentially compromising treatment outcomes or causing toxicity. Although machine learning (ML) models have made strides in DDI prediction, existing approaches lack specificity for oral diabetes medications and face challenges in interpretability. To address these limitations, we propose a novel ML-based framework utilizing the Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System (SMILES) to encode structural information of oral diabetes drugs. Using this representation, we developed an XGBoost model, selecting molecular features through LASSO. Our dataset, sourced from DrugBank, included 42 oral diabetes drugs and 1,884 interacting drugs, divided into training, validation, and testing sets. The model identified 606 optimal features, achieving an F1-score of 0.8182. SHAP analysis was employed for feature interpretation, enhancing model transparency and clinical relevance. By predicting adverse DDIs, our model offers a valuable tool for clinical decision-making, aiding safer prescription practices. The 606 critical features provide insights into atomic-level interactions, linking computational predictions with biological experiments. We present a classification model specifically designed for predicting DDIs associated with oral diabetes medications, with an openly accessible web application to support diabetes management in multi-drug regimens and comorbidity settings.", 
    "abstract": "To date, pure-tone audiometry remains the gold standard for clinical auditory testing. However, pure-tone audiometry is time-consuming and only provides a discrete estimate of hearing acuity. Here, we aim to address these two main drawbacks by developing a machine learning (ML)-based approach for fully automated bone-conduction (BC) audiometry tests with forehead vibrator placement. Study 1 examines the occlusion effects when the headphones are positioned on both ears during BC forehead testing. Study 2 describes the ML-based approach for BC audiometry, with automated contralateral masking rules, compensation for occlusion effects and forehead-mastoid corrections. Next, the performance of ML-audiometry is examined in comparison to manual and conventional BC audiometry with mastoid placement. Finally, Study 3 examines the test-retest reliability of ML-audiometry. Our results show no significant performance difference between automated ML-audiometry and manual conventional audiometry. High test-retest reliability is achieved with the automated ML-audiometry. Together, our findings demonstrate the performance and reliability of the automated ML-based BC audiometry for both normal-hearing and hearing-impaired adult listeners with mild to severe hearing losses.", 
    "abstract": "With the growing consensus of emerging pollutants and biological toxicity risks in wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) effluents, traditional water quality management based on general chemical parameters no longer meets the new challenges. Here, a first-hand dataset containing 9 conventional parameters, 22 mental and inorganic ions, 25 biotoxicity parameters, and 54 emerging pollutants from effluents of 176 municipal WWTPs across China were measured. Four clustering algorithms and five classification algorithms were applied to 65 well-performing models to determine a novel evaluation parameter system. A total of 14 parameters were selected by semi-supervised machine learning, including TN, TP, NH", 
    "abstract": "Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC) presents a significant challenge in oncology due to its inherent heterogeneity. Traditional staging systems, such as TNM (Tumor, Node, Metastasis), provide limited information regarding patient outcomes and treatment responses. There is a need for a more robust system to improve patient stratification.\nIn this study, we utilized advanced statistical techniques to explore patient stratification beyond the limitations of TNM staging. A comprehensive dataset, including clinical, radiomic, genomic, and pathological data, was analyzed. The methodology involved correlation analysis of variable pairs and triples, followed by clustering techniques.\nThe analysis revealed that HNSCC subpopulations exhibit distinct characteristics, which challenge the conventional one-size-fits-all approach.\nThis study underscores the potential for personalized treatment strategies based on comprehensive patient profiling, offering a pathway towards more individualized therapeutic interventions.", 
    "abstract": "Due to its diverse topography, Pakistan faces different types of floods each year, which cause substantial physical, environmental, and socioeconomic damage. However, the susceptibility of specific regions to different flood types remains unexplored. To the best of our knowledge for the first time, this study employed an integrated approach by leveraging a GIS-based Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP), remote sensing, and machine learning (ML) algorithms, to assess susceptibility to three different types of flooding in Peshawar, Pakistan. The study first evaluated the degree of susceptibility to riverine, urban, and flash floods using the GIS-based AHP technique, and then employed ML models, (i.e., specifically Random Forest [RF] and Extreme Gradient Boosting [XG-Boost] to analyze multi-type flood susceptibility in the study region. The performance of the ML models was also evaluated, and the XG-Boost model outperforms RF, demonstrating a higher correlation coefficient (R", 
    "abstract": "Title-abstract screening in the preparation of a systematic review is a time-consuming task. Modern techniques of natural language processing and machine learning might allow partly automatization of title-abstract screening. In particular, clear guidance on how to proceed with these techniques in practice is of high relevance.\nThis paper presents an entire pipeline how to use natural language processing techniques to make the titles and abstracts usable for machine learning and how to apply machine learning algorithms to adequately predict whether or not a publication should be forwarded to full text screening. Guidance for the practical use of the methodology is given.\nThe appealing performance of the approach is demonstrated by means of two real-world systematic reviews with meta analysis.\nNatural language processing and machine learning can help to semi-automatize title-abstract screening. Different project-specific considerations have to be made for applying them in practice.", 
        "Title-abstract screening" 
    "title": "Semi-automated title-abstract screening using natural language processing and machine learning.", 
    "abstract": "Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have achieved remarkable accuracy for numerous applications, yet their complexity often renders the explanation of predictions a challenging task. This complexity contrasts with easily interpretable statistical models, which, however, often suffer from lower accuracy. Our work suggests that this underperformance may stem more from inadequate training methods than from the inherent limitations of model structures. We hereby introduce the Synced Explanation-Enhanced Neural Network (SEE-Net), a novel architecture integrating a guiding DNN with a shallow neural network, functionally equivalent to a two-layer mixture of linear models. This shallow network is trained under the guidance of the DNN, effectively bridging the gap between the prediction power of deep learning and the need for explainable models. Experiments on image and tabular data demonstrate that SEE-Net can leverage the advantage of DNNs while providing an interpretable prediction framework. Critically, SEE-Net embodies a new paradigm in machine learning: it achieves high-level explainability with minimal compromise on prediction accuracy by training an almost \"white-box\" model under the co-supervision of a \"black-box\" model, which can be tailored for diverse applications.", 
    "abstract": "In clinical practice, the glomerular filtration rate (GFR), a measurement of kidney functioning, is normally calculated using equations, such as the European Kidney Function Consortium (EKFC) equation. Despite being the most general equation, EKFC, just like previously proposed approaches, can still struggle to achieve satisfactory performance, limiting its clinical applicability. As a possible solution, recently machine learning (ML) has been investigated to improve GFR prediction, nonetheless the literature still lacks a general and multi-center study. Using a dataset with 19,629 patients from 13 cohorts, we investigate if ML can improve GFR prediction in comparison to EKFC. More specifically, we compare diverse ML methods, which were allowed to use age, sex, serum creatinine, cystatin C, height, weight and BMI as features, in internal and external cohorts against EKFC. The results show that the most performing ML method, random forest (RF), and EKFC are very competitive where RF and EKFC achieved respectively P10 and P30 values of 0.45 (95% CI 0.44;0.46) and 0.89 (95% CI 0.88;0.90), whereas EKFC yielded 0.44 (95% CI 0.43; 0.44) and 0.89 (95% CI 0.88; 0.90), considering the entire cohort. Small differences were, however, observed in patients younger than 12\u00a0years where RF slightly outperformed EKFC.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to construct a high-performance prediction and diagnosis model for type 2 diabetic retinopathy (DR) and identify key correlates of DR. This study utilized a cross-sectional dataset of 3,000 patients from the People's Liberation Army General Hospital in 2021. Logistic regression was used as the baseline model to compare the prediction performance of the machine learning model and the related factors. The recursive feature elimination cross-validation (RFECV) algorithm was used to select features. Four machine learning models, support vector machine (SVM), decision tree (DT), random forest (RF), and gradient boost decision tree (GBDT), were developed to predict DR. The models were optimized using grid search to determine hyperparameters, and the model with superior performance was selected. Shapley-additive explanations (SHAP) were used to analyze the important correlation factors of DR. Among the four machine learning models, the optimal model was GBDT, with predicted accuracy, precision, recall, F1-measure, and AUC values of 0.7883, 0.8299, 0.7539, 0.7901, and 0.8672, respectively. Six key correlates of DR were identified, including rapid micronutrient protein/creatinine measurement, 24-h micronutrient protein, fasting C-peptide, glycosylated hemoglobin, blood urea, and creatinine. The logistic model had 27 risk factors, with an AUC value of 0.8341. A superior prediction model was constructed that identified easily explainable key factors. The number of correlation factors was significantly lower compared to traditional statistical methods, leading to a more accurate prediction performance than the latter.", 
    "abstract": "In case-control single-cell RNA-seq studies, sample-level labels are transferred onto individual cells, labeling all case cells as affected, when in reality only a small fraction of them may actually be perturbed. Here, using simulations, we demonstrate that the standard approach to single cell analysis fails to isolate the subset of affected case cells and their markers when either the affected subset is small, or when the strength of the perturbation is mild. To address this fundamental limitation, we introduce HiDDEN, a computational method that refines the case-control labels to accurately reflect the perturbation status of each cell. We show HiDDEN's superior ability to recover biological signals missed by the standard analysis workflow in simulated ground truth datasets of cell type mixtures. When applied to a dataset of human multiple myeloma precursor conditions, HiDDEN recapitulates the expert manual annotation and discovers malignancy in early stage samples missed in the original analysis. When applied to a mouse model of demyelination, HiDDEN identifies an endothelial subpopulation playing a role in early stage blood-brain barrier dysfunction. We anticipate that HiDDEN should find wide usage in contexts that require the detection of subtle transcriptional changes in cell types across conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Abnormal white blood cell count after kidney transplantation is an important adverse clinical outcome. The abnormal white blood cell count in patients after surgery may be caused by the use of immunosuppressive agents and other factors. A lower white blood cell count than normal will greatly increase the probability of adverse outcomes such as infection and reduce the success rate of surgery.\nTo establish a machine learning prediction model of leukocyte drop to abnormal level after kidney transplantation, and provide reference for clinical treatment.\nA total of 546 kidney transplant patients were selected as the study subjects. The time correlation feature of the ratio of the duration time of each variable to the total time in different intervals was innovatively introduced. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator algorithm was used for correlation analysis of 85 candidate variables, and the top 20 variables were retained in the end. Eight machine learning algorithms, including Logistic-L1, Logistic-L2, support vector machine, decision tree, random forest, multilayer perceptron, extreme gradient boosting and light gradient boosting machine, were used for the five-fold cross-validation on all data sets, and the algorithm with the best performance was selected as the final prediction algorithm based on the average area under the curve.\nAs the final prediction model, the accuracy, sensitivity, specificity and area under the curve values of the multilayer perceptron model in test set were 71.34%, 61.18%, 82.28% and 77.30%, respectively. The most important factors affecting leukopenia after surgery were the proportion of time of lymphocyte less than normal, blood group AB, gender, and platelet CV.\nThe multilayer perceptron model explored in this study shows significant potential in predicting abnormal white blood cell counts after kidney transplantation. This model can help stratify risk following transplantation, subject to external and/or prospective validation.", 
    "abstract": "Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative disease with a high incidence worldwide. Most affected patients do not exhibit obvious discomfort symptoms or imaging findings until OA progresses, leading to irreversible destruction of articular cartilage and bone. Therefore, developing new diagnostic biomarkers that can reflect articular cartilage injury is crucial for the early diagnosis of OA. This study aims to explore biomarkers related to the immune microenvironment of OA, providing a new research direction for the early diagnosis and identification of risk factors for OA.\nWe screened and downloaded relevant data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, and the immune microenvironment-related genes (Imr-DEGs) were identified using the ImmPort data set by combining weighted coexpression analysis (WGCNA). Functional enrichment of GO and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were conducted to explore the correlation of Imr-DEGs. A random forest machine learning model was constructed to analyze the characteristic genes of OA, and the diagnostic significance was determined by the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (ROC) curve, with external datasets used to verify the diagnostic ability. Different immune subtypes of OA were identified by unsupervised clustering, and the function of these subtypes was analyzed by gene set enrichment analysis (GSVA). The Drug-Gene Interaction Database was used to explore the relationship between characteristic genes and drugs.\nSingle sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) revealed that 16 of 28 immune cell subsets in the dataset significantly differed between OA and normal groups. There were 26 Imr-DEGs identified by WGCNA, showing that functional enrichment was related to immune response. Using the random forest machine learning model algorithm, nine characteristic genes were obtained: \nThis study identified characteristic genes related to the immune microenvironment in OA, providing new insight into the risk factors of OA.", 
    "abstract": "The University of California-Irvine (UCI) Machine Learning (ML) Repository (UCIMLR) is consistently cited as one of the most popular dataset repositories, hosting hundreds of high-impact datasets. However, a significant portion, including 28.4% of the top 250, cannot be imported via the ", 
    "abstract": "Traditional ECG criteria for left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) have low diagnostic yield. Machine learning (ML) can improve ECG classification.\nECG summary features (rate, intervals, axis), R-wave, S-wave and overall-QRS amplitudes, and QRS/QRST voltage-time integrals (VTIs) were extracted from 12-lead, vectorcardiographic X-Y-Z-lead, and root-mean-square (3D) representative-beat ECGs. Latent features were extracted by variational autoencoder from X-Y-Z and 3D representative-beat ECGs. Logistic regression, random forest, light gradient boosted machine (LGBM), residual network (ResNet) and multilayer perceptron network (MLP) models using ECG features and sex, and a convolutional neural network (CNN) using ECG signals, were trained to predict LVH (left ventricular mass indexed in women >95 g/m\u00b2, men >115 g/m\u00b2) on 225,333 adult ECG-echocardiogram (within 45 days) pairs. AUROCs for LVH classification were obtained in a separate test set for individual ECG variables, traditional criteria and ML models.\nIn the test set (n=25,263), AUROC for LVH classification was higher for ML models using ECG features (LGBM 0.790, MLP 0.789, ResNet 0.788) as compared to the best individual variable (VTI\nML models are superior to traditional ECG criteria to classify-and predict future-LVH. Models trained on extracted ECG features, including variational autoencoder latent variables, outperformed CNN directly trained on ECG signal.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding treatment effects on health-related outcomes using real-world data requires defining a causal parameter and imposing relevant identification assumptions to translate it into a statistical estimand. Semiparametric methods, like the targeted maximum likelihood estimator (TMLE), have been developed to construct asymptotically linear estimators of these parameters. To further establish the asymptotic efficiency of these estimators, two conditions must be met: 1) the relevant components of the data likelihood must fall within a Donsker class, and 2) the estimates of nuisance parameters must converge to their true values at a rate faster than ", 
    "abstract": "Positron emission tomography (PET) is a highly sensitive tool for studying physiology and metabolism through positron-emitting radionuclides that label molecular targets in the body with unparalleled specificity, without disturbing their biological function. Here, we introduce a small-animal technique called behavioral task-associated PET (beta-PET) consisting of two scans: the first after a mouse is familiarized with a conditioning chamber, and the second upon recall of contextual threat. Associative threat conditioning occurs between the scans. Beta-PET focuses on brain regions encoding threat memory (e.g., amygdala, prefrontal cortex) and contextual aspects (e.g., hippocampus, subiculum, entorhinal cortex). Our results show that beta-PET identifies a biologically defined functional network encoding contextual threat memory and its uncoupling in a mouse model of long sepsis. Moreover, machine learning algorithms (linear logistic regression) and ordinal trends analysis demonstrate that beta-PET robustly predicts the behavioral defense response and its breakdown during long sepsis.", 
    "abstract": "Nanozymes, synthetic nanomaterials that mimic the catalytic functions of natural enzymes, have emerged as transformative technologies for biosensing, diagnostics, and environmental monitoring. Since their introduction, nanozymes have rapidly evolved with significant advancements in their design and applications, particularly through the integration of machine learning (ML). Machine learning (ML) has optimized nanozyme efficiency by predicting ideal size, shape, and surface chemistry, reducing experimental time and resources. This review explores the rapid advancements in nanozyme technology, highlighting the role of ML in improving performance across various bioapplications, including real-time monitoring and the development of chemiluminescent, electrochemical and colorimetric sensors. We discuss the evolution of different types of nanozymes, their catalytic mechanisms, and the impact of ML on their property optimization. Furthermore, this review addresses challenges related to data quality, scalability, and standardization, while highlighting future directions for ML-driven nanozyme development. By examining recent innovations, this review highlights the potential of combining nanozymes with ML to drive the development of next-generation diagnostic and detection technologies.", 
    "abstract": "Research supporting the presence of diverse motor impairments, including impaired balance coordination, in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is increasing. The one-legged standing test (OLST) is a popular test of balance. Since machine learning is a powerful technique for learning predictive models from movement data, it can objectively evaluate the processes involved in OLST. This study assesses machine learning's effectiveness in evaluating movement in OLST for predicting high autistic trait.\nIn this study, 64 boys and 62 girls participated. The participants were instructed to stand on one leg on a pressure sensor while facing the experimenter. The data collected in the experiment were time-series data pertaining to pressure distribution on the sole of the foot and full-body images. A model to identify the participants belonging to High autistic trait group and Low autistic trait group was developed using a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm with 16 explanatory variables. Further, classification models were built for the conventional, proposed, and combined explanatory variable categories. The probabilities of High autistic trait group were calculated using the SVM model.\nFor proposed and combined variables, the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity scores were 1.000. The variables shoulder, hip, and trunk are important since they explain the balance status of children with high autistic trait. Further, the total Social Responsiveness Scale score positively correlated with the probability of High autistic trait group in each category of explanatory variables.\nResults indicate the effectiveness of evaluating movement in OLST by using movies and machine learning for predicting high autistic trait. In addition, they emphasize the significance of specifically focusing on shoulder and waist movements, which facilitate the efficient predicting high autistic trait. Finally, studies incorporating a broader range of balance cues are necessary to comprehensively determine the effectiveness of utilizing balance ability in predicting high autistic trait.", 
    "abstract": "Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) holds significance in Alzheimer's disease (AD), where cognitive impairment correlates with insufficient acetylcholine levels. AChE's role involves the breakdown of acetylcholine, moderating cholinergic neuron activity to prevent overstimulation and signal termination. Hence, inhibiting AChE emerges as a potential treatment avenue for AD. A library of 2500 compounds, derived from 25 traditionally used medicinal plants, was constructed using the IMPAAT database of traditional medicinal plants. The canonical SMILES of these compounds were collected and underwent virtual screening based on physicochemical properties, with subsequent determination of IC", 
    "abstract": "Renowned for their high porosity and structural diversity, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) are a promising class of materials for a wide range of applications. In recent decades, with the development of large-scale databases, the MOF community has witnessed innovations brought by data-driven machine learning methods, which have enabled a deeper understanding of the chemical nature of MOFs and led to the development of novel structures. Notably, machine learning is continuously and rapidly advancing as new methodologies, architectures, and data representations are actively being investigated, and their implementation in materials discovery is vigorously pursued. Under these circumstances, it is important to closely monitor recent research trends and identify the technologies that are being introduced. In this Perspective, we focus on emerging trends of machine learning within the field of MOFs, the challenges they face, and the future directions of their development.", 
    "abstract": "Obesity has emerged as a growing global public health concern over recent decades. Obesity prevalence exhibits substantial global variation, ranging from less than 5% in regions like China, Japan, and Africa to rates exceeding 75% in urban areas of Samoa.\nTo examine the involvement of metabolism-related genes.\nGene expression datasets GSE110729 and GSE205668 were accessed from the GEO database. DEGs between obese and lean groups were identified through DESeq2. Metabolism-related genes and pathways were detected using enrichment analysis, WGCNA, Random Forest, and XGBoost. The identified signature genes were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) in mouse models.\nA total of 389 genes exhibiting differential expression were discovered, showing significant enrichment in metabolic pathways, particularly in the propanoate metabolism pathway. The orangered4 module, which exhibited the highest correlation with propanoate metabolism, was identified using Weighted Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA). By integrating the DEGs, WGCNA results, and machine learning methods, the identification of two metabolism-related genes, Storkhead Box 1 (STOX1), NACHT and WD repeat domain-containing protein 2(NWD2) was achieved. These signature genes successfully distinguished between obese and lean individuals. qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the downregulation of STOX1 and NWD2 in mouse models of obesity.\nThis study has analyzed the available GEO dataset in order to identify novel factors associated with obesity metabolism and found that STOX1 and NWD2 may serve as diagnostic biomarkers.", 
    "abstract": "The diagnosis of lymphomas is challenging due to their diverse histological presentations and clinical manifestations. There is a need for inexpensive tools that require minimal expertise and are accessible for routine laboratories. Contrastingly, current conventional diagnostic methods are often found only in specialized environments. Attenuated total reflection-Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy offers a nondestructive and user-friendly approach in the analysis of a wide range of samples. In this paper, we determined whether the technique coupled with machine learning can detect and differentiate lymphoma within lymphoid tissue samples. Tissue sections from 295 individuals diagnosed with lymphoma and 389 individuals without the disease were analyzed using ATR-FTIR spectroscopy. The resulting spectral dataset was split using a 70:30 train-test split. Partial least Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA) models were trained to distinguish non-malignant lymphoid tissue from lymphoma samples and to differentiate between subtypes. On the training set (n\u2009=\u2009478), significant spectral differences were mainly identified in the 1800-900\u2009cm", 
    "abstract": "Nanostructured materials have gained significant attention as anode material in rechargeable lithium-ion batteries due to their large surface-to-volume ratio and efficient lithium-ion intercalation. Herein, we systematically investigated the electronic and electrochemical performance of pristine and endohedral doped (O and Se) Ge", 
    "abstract": "Traditional methods of materials discovery, often relying on intuition and trial-and-error experimentation, are time-consuming and limited in their ability to explore the vast design space effectively. The emergence of machine learning (ML) as a powerful tool for pattern recognition has opened exciting opportunities to revolutionize materials discovery. This work explores the application of ML techniques to assist in the discovery of materials using band structure data. The electronic band structure, which describes the energy levels of electrons in a material, holds vital information regarding its electronic and optical properties. The band structure data of 63,588 materials, including metals and insulators, have been retrieved from the Materials Project database. The data were grouped into 85 batches based on the band path in the first Brillouin zone. Three ML clustering algorithms were trained on the band structure data after performing feature selection and engineering, followed by noise reduction. The models were validated by comparing the materials' properties in a cluster.", 
    "abstract": "Pulmonary infection is the most common and serious complication after kidney transplantation that affects the survival of the transplanted kidney and the quality of life of patients. This study aims to construct a machine learning model for predicting the risk of pulmonary infection after kidney transplantation.\nWe recruited 857 kidney transplant recipients from January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2021, in the Department of Nephrology, the First Affiliated Hospital of the University of Science and Technology of China. First, the distribution of baseline characteristics between patients with and without postoperative pulmonary infections was analyzed. Subsequently, six machine learning models were constructed to predict the risk of postoperative pulmonary infections. Finally, these models were subjected to external validation using an independent cohort. The performance of the\u00a0models was evaluated by area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).\nAmong kidney transplant recipients, a total of 186 individuals developed pneumonia, with 144 cases in the training cohort and 42 cases in the external validation cohort. The AUC range of the six machine learning models for predicting the risk of postoperative pulmonary infection was 0.758-0.822 for the training cohort and 0.642-0.795 for the testing cohort. Among the models assessed, the gradient boosting machine demonstrated the most favorable predictive accuracy.\nOur study has developed a predictive model for assessing the risk of pulmonary infection after kidney transplantation, thereby providing a valuable foundation for the effective management of kidney transplant recipients.", 
    "abstract": "Ferroptosis has emerged as a critical mechanism in the development and progression of various tumors, particularly diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). However, the thorough characterization of ferroptosis-related genes in DLBCL remains inadequately explored. We retrieved datasets associated with DLBCL and ferroptosis gene sets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and the Ferroptosis Database (FerrDb), resulting in the identification of 27 differentially expressed ferroptosis-related genes (DE-FRGs) linked to DLBCL. Utilizing the LASSO and Support Vector Machine Recursive Feature Elimination (SVW-RFE) algorithms, we identified 10 genes-MT1G, MTOR, BRD4, ACO1, SAT1, PEBP1, LPIN1, ATM, SRXN1, and PRDX1-as key biomarker candidates with significant diagnostic potential. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that these biomarker genes are likely involved in regulating several critical biological pathways implicated in DLBCL pathogenesis, including immune response, oxidative phosphorylation, and cell cycle regulation. Moreover, we identified 246 potential therapeutic agents targeting these 10 biomarker genes. Concurrently, competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network analysis uncovered a complex regulatory network centered on the identified biomarker genes. Additionally, CIBERSORT analysis highlighted notable alterations in the immune microenvironment of DLBCL patients. We propose a diagnostic strategy that provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying DLBCL. Nevertheless, further validation of the practical value of this strategy for DLBCL diagnosis is necessary before its clinical application.", 
    "abstract": "Detecting circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from blood has become a promising approach for cancer diagnosis. Surface-enhanced Raman Spectroscopy (SERS) has rapidly developed as a significant detection technology for CTCs, offering high sensitivity and selectivity. Encoded SERS bioprobes have gained attention due to their excellent specificity and ability to identify tumor cells using Raman signals. Machine learning has also made significant contributions to biomedical applications, especially in medical diagnosis. In this study, we developed a detection strategy combining encoded SERS bioprobes and machine learning models to identify CTCs. Dual-modal SERS bioprobes were designed and co-incubated with tumor cells by the \"cocktail\" method. An identification model for CTCs was constructed using principal component analysis (PCA) and the Random Forest classification algorithm. This innovative strategy endows SERS bioprobes with both effective magnetic separation and highly sensitive identification of CTCs, even at low concentrations of 2\u00a0cells/mL. It achieved a high detection rate of 98% for CTCs and effectively eliminated interference from peripheral WBCs. This simple and efficient strategy provides a new approach for CTCs detection and holds important significance for cancer diagnosis.", 
    "abstract": "Comprehensive Quality Assurance (QA) protocols are necessary for complex beam delivery systems like Pencil Beam Scanning (PBS) proton therapy. This study focuses on automating the evaluation of beam delivery accuracy using irradiation log files and machine learning (ML) models.\nIrradiation log files of 935 clinical treatment fields and routine QA beams were analysed to evaluate spot parameters and Monitor Unit (MU) accuracy. ML models predicted spot size along the\u00a0X,\u00a0Y, major, and minor axes. In-house scripts automated log file analysis and spot size predictions. Predicted spot sizes were compared with expected baselines, and the accuracy of spot position, symmetry, and MU for each spot in the beam was evaluated.\nMore than 99.5\u00a0% of spot positions were accurate within a 1\u00a0mm. The mean and Standard Deviation (SD) of\u00a0X\u00a0positional error were -0.021\u00a0mm (SD: 0.181\u00a0mm), and for Y positional error, they were -0.002\u00a0mm (SD: 0.132\u00a0mm). ML models accurately predicted spot sizes, with over 95\u00a0% of spots demonstrating size variations within 10\u00a0% of the baseline. The Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) of\u00a0X\u00a0and Y spot size differences were 0.15\u00a0mm and 0.16\u00a0mm, respectively. Spot symmetry was within 10\u00a0%, and MU accuracy showed 95\u00a0% of spots with MU per spot variation less than 2\u00a0%.\nThis method can validate the vendor's beam delivery safety interlock system and serve as a quick alternative to patient-specific QA in adaptive treatment, where time is limited, as well as for routine QA spot parameter evaluations.", 
    "abstract": "Cisplatin-induced ototoxicity remains a significant concern in pediatric cancer treatment due to its permanent impact on quality of life. Previously, genetic association analyses have been performed to detect genetic variants associated with this adverse reaction.\nIn this study, a combination of interpretable neural networks and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) was employed to identify genetic markers associated with cisplatin-induced ototoxicity. The applied method, BRI-Net, incorporates biological domain knowledge to define the network structure and employs adversarial training to learn an unbiased representation of the data, which is robust to known confounders. Leveraging genomic data from a cohort of 362 cisplatin-treated pediatric cancer patients recruited by the CPNDS (Canadian Pharmacogenomics Network for Drug Safety), this model revealed two statistically significant single nucleotide polymorphisms to be associated with cisplatin-induced ototoxicity.\nTwo markers within the CERS6 (rs13022792, p-value: 3\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010\nOverall, these findings provide a foundation for understanding the genetic landscape of cisplatin-induced ototoxicity, with implications for improving patient care and treatment outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "Automatic analysis of pathologic vertebrae from computed tomography (CT) scans could significantly improve the diagnostic management of patients with metastatic spine disease. We provide the first publicly available annotated imaging dataset of cancerous CT spines to help develop artificial intelligence frameworks for automatic vertebrae segmentation and classification. This collection contains a dataset of 55 CT scans collected on patients with various types of primary cancers at two different institutions. In addition to raw images, data include manual segmentations and contours, vertebral level labeling, vertebral lesion-type classifications, and patient demographic details. Our automated segmentation model uses nnU-Net, a freely available open-source framework for deep learning in healthcare imaging, and is made publicly available. This data will facilitate the development and validation of models for predicting the mechanical response to loading and the resulting risk of fractures and spinal deformity.", 
    "abstract": "External physiological monitoring is the primary approach to measure and remove effects of low-frequency respiratory variation from BOLD-fMRI signals. However, the acquisition of clean external respiratory data during fMRI is not always possible, so recent research has proposed using machine learning to directly estimate respiratory variation (RV), potentially obviating the need for external monitoring. In this study, we propose an extended method for reconstructing RV waveforms directly from resting state BOLD-fMRI data in healthy adult participants with the inclusion of both BOLD signals and derived head motion parameters.\nIn the proposed method, 1D convolutional neural networks (1D-CNNs) used BOLD signals and head motion parameters to reconstruct the RV waveform for the whole fMRI scan time. Resting-state fMRI data and associated respiratory records from the Human Connectome Project in Young Adults (HCP-YA) dataset are used to train and test the proposed method.\nCompared to using only BOLD-fMRI data for a CNN input, this approach yielded improvements of 14% in mean absolute error, 24% in mean square error, 14% in correlation, and 12% in dynamic time warping. When tested on independent datasets, the method demonstrated generalizability, even in data with different TRs and physiological conditions.\nThis study shows that the respiratory variations could be reconstructed from BOLD-fMRI data in the young adult population, and its accuracy could be improved using supportive data such as head motion parameters. The method also performed well on independent datasets with different experimental conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Density functional theory (DFT) has been a cornerstone in computational science, providing powerful insights into structure-property relationships for molecules and materials through first-principles quantum-mechanical (QM) calculations. However, the advent of atomistic machine learning (ML) is reshaping the landscape by enabling large-scale dynamics simulations and high-throughput screening at DFT-equivalent accuracy with drastically reduced computational cost. Yet, the development of general-purpose atomistic ML models as surrogates for QM calculations faces several challenges, particularly in terms of model capacity, data efficiency, and transferability across chemically diverse systems. This work introduces a novel extension of the polarizable atom interaction neural network (namely, XPaiNN) to address these challenges. Two distinct training strategies have been employed, one direct-learning and the other \u0394-ML on top of a semiempirical QM method. These methodologies have been implemented within the same framework, allowing for a detailed comparison of their results. The XPaiNN models, in particular the one using \u0394-ML, not only demonstrate competitive performance on standard benchmarks, but also demonstrate the effectiveness against other ML models and QM methods on comprehensive downstream tasks, including noncovalent interactions, reaction energetics, barrier heights, geometry optimization and reaction thermodynamics, etc. This work represents a significant step forward in the pursuit of accurate and efficient atomistic ML models of general-purpose, capable of handling complex chemical systems with transferable accuracy.", 
    "abstract": "Recently, Optimal Transport has been proposed as a probabilistic framework in Machine Learning for comparing and manipulating probability distributions. This is rooted in its rich history and theory, and has offered new solutions to different problems in machine learning, such as generative modeling and transfer learning. In this survey we explore contributions of Optimal Transport for Machine Learning over the period 2012 - 2023, focusing on four sub-fields of Machine Learning: supervised, unsupervised, transfer and reinforcement learning. We further highlight the recent development in computational Optimal Transport and its extensions, such as partial, unbalanced, Gromov and Neural Optimal Transport, and its interplay with Machine Learning practice.", 
    "abstract": "Unraveling the nature of adsorbed olefins in zeolites is crucial to understand numerous zeolite-catalyzed processes. A well-grounded theoretical description critically depends on both an accurate determination of the potential energy surface (PES) and a reliable account of entropic effects at operating conditions. Herein, we propose a transfer learning approach to perform random phase approximation (RPA) quality enhanced sampling molecular dynamics simulations, thereby approaching chemical accuracy on both the determination and exploration of the PES. The proposed methodology is used to investigate isobutene adsorption in H-SSZ-13 as prototypical system to estimate the relative stability of physisorbed olefins, carbenium ions and surface alkoxide species (SAS) in Br\u00f6nsted-acidic zeolites. We show that the tert-butyl carbenium ion formation is highly endothermic and no entropic stabilization is observed compared to the physisorbed complex within H-SSZ-13. Hence, its predicted concentration and lifetime are negligible, making a direct experimental observation unlikely. Yet, it remains a shallow minimum on the free energy surface over the whole considered temperature range (273--873 K), being therefore a short-lived reaction intermediate rather than a transition state species.", 
    "abstract": "The Fontan procedure is the definitive palliation for pediatric patients born with single ventricles. Surgical planning for the Fontan procedure has emerged as a promising vehicle toward optimizing outcomes, where pre-operative measurements are used prospectively as post-operative boundary conditions for simulation. Nevertheless, actual post-operative measurements can be very different from pre-operative states, which raises questions for the accuracy of surgical planning. The goal of this study is to apply machine leaning techniques to describing pre-operative and post-operative vena caval flow conditions in Fontan patients in order to develop predictions of post-operative boundary conditions to be used in surgical planning. Based on a virtual cohort synthesized by lumped-parameter models, we proposed a novel diversity-aware generative adversarial active learning framework to successfully train predictive deep neural networks on very limited amount of cases that are generally faced by cardiovascular studies. Results of 14 groups of experiments uniquely combining different data query strategies, metrics, and data augmentation options with generative adversarial networks demonstrated that the highest overall prediction accuracy and coefficient of determination were exhibited by the proposed method. This framework serves as a first step toward deep learning for cardiovascular flow prediction/regression with reduced labeling requirements and augmented learning space.", 
    "abstract": "Immunoglobulin light chain (AL) amyloidosis is a severe disorder caused by the accumulation of amyloid fibrils, leading to organ failure. Early diagnosis is crucial to prevent irreversible damage, yet it remains a challenge due to nonspecific symptoms that often appear later in the disease progression. A retrospective study analyzed data collected from 133 AL amyloidosis patients and 271 non-AL patients with similar symptoms but different diagnoses between January 1st, 2017, and September 30th, 2022. Demographic data and laboratory test results were collected. Subsequently, significant features were identified by both logistic regression and independent expert clinical ability. Eventually, logistic regression and four machine learning (ML) algorithms were employed to construct a diagnostic model, utilizing fivefold cross-validation and blind set testing to identify the optimal model. The study successfully identified nine independent predictors of AL amyloidosis patients with kidney or cardiac involvement, respectively. Two models were developed to identify key features that distinguish AL amyloidosis from nephrotic syndrome and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, respectively. The light gradient boosting machine (LightGBM) model emerged as the most effective, demonstrating superior performance with the area under curve (AUC) of 0.90 in both models, alongside high sensitivity, specificity, and F1-score. This research highlights the potential of using a machine learning-based LightGBM model to facilitate early and accurate diagnosis of AL amyloidosis. The model's effectiveness suggests it could be a valuable tool in clinical settings, aiding in the timely identification of AL amyloidosis among patients with non-specific symptoms. Further validation in diverse populations is recommended to establish its universal applicability.", 
    "abstract": "The mechanical properties at small length scales are not only significant for understanding the intriguing size-dependent behaviors but also critical for device applications. Nanoindentation via atomic force microscopy is widely used for small-scale mechanical testing, yet determining the Young's modulus of quasi-2D films from freestanding force-displacement curve of nanoindentation remains challenging, complicated by both bending and stretching that are highly nonlinear. To overcome these difficulties, a machine learning model is developed based on the back propagation (BP) neural network and finite element training to accurately determine the Young's modulus, pretension, and thickness of freestanding films from nanoindentation force-displacement curves simultaneously, improving the computational efficiency by two orders of magnitude over conventional brute force curve fitting. Using this technique, anomalously high apparent Young's modulus is discovered of 2.8\u00a0nm thick PbZr", 
    "abstract": "Overweight and obesity pose a huge burden on individuals and society. While the relationship between lifestyle factors and overweight and obesity is well-established, the relative contribution of specific lifestyle factors remains unclear. To address this gap in the literature, this study utilizes interpretable machine learning methods to identify the relative importance of specific lifestyle factors as predictors of overweight and obesity in adults.\nData were obtained from 46,057 adults in the China Health and Nutrition Survey (2004-2011) and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (2007-2014). Basic demographic information, self-reported lifestyle factors, including physical activity, macronutrient intake, tobacco and alcohol consumption, and body weight status were collected. Three machine learning models, namely decision tree, random forest, and gradient-boosting decision tree, were employed to predict body weight status from lifestyle factors. The SHapley Additive exPlanation (SHAP) method was used to interpret the prediction results of the best-performing model by determining the contributions of specific lifestyle factors to the development of overweight and obesity in adults.\nThe performance of the gradient-boosting decision tree model outperformed the decision tree and random forest models. Analysis based on the SHAP method indicates that sedentary behavior, alcohol consumption, and protein intake were important lifestyle factors predicting the development of overweight and obesity in adults. The amount of alcohol consumption and time spent sedentary were the strongest predictors of overweight and obesity, respectively. Specifically, sedentary behavior exceeding 28-35\u00a0h/week, alcohol consumption of more than 7 cups/week, and protein intake exceeding 80\u00a0g/day increased the risk of being predicted as overweight and obese.\nPooled evidence from two nationally representative studies suggests that recognizing demographic differences and emphasizing the relative importance of sedentary behavior, alcohol consumption, and protein intake are beneficial for managing body weight status in adults. The specific risk thresholds for lifestyle factors observed in this study can help inform and guide future research and public health actions.", 
    "abstract": "Significant variability in post-left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation outcomes emphasize the importance of accurately assessing patients' risk prior to surgery. This study assesses the MARKER-HF mortality risk model, a machine learning-based tool utilizing 8 clinical variables, to predict post-LVAD implantation mortality and its prognostic enhancement over the INTERMACS profile.\nAnalyzing 25,365 INTERMACS database patients (mean age 56.8 years, 78% male), 5,663 (22.3%) and 19,702 (77.7%) received HeartMate 3 and other types of LVAD. They were categorized into low, moderate, high, and very high-risk groups based on MARKER-HF score. The outcomes of interest were in-hospital and 1-year post-discharge mortality.\nIn patients receiving HM3 devices, 6.2% died during index hospitalization. In-hospital mortality progressively increased from 4.4% in low to 15.2% in very high -risk groups with MARKER-HF score. MARKER-HF provided additional risk discrimination within each INTERMACS profile. Combining MARKER-HF score and INTERMACS profile identified patients with the lowest (3.5%) and highest in-hospital mortality (19.8%) rates. Post-discharge mortality rate at one year was 5.8% in this population. In a Cox-proportional hazard regression analysis adjusting for both MARKER-HF and INTERMACS profile, only MARKER-HF score (hazard ratio: 1.27, 95% CI: 1.11-1.46, P<0.001) was associated with post-discharge mortality. Similar findings were observed for patients receiving other types of LVAD.\nThe MARKER-HF score is a valuable tool for assessing mortality risk in HF patients undergoing HM3 and other LVAD implantation. It offers prognostic information beyond that of the INTERMACS profile alone and it's use should help in the shared decision-making process for LVAD implantation.", 
    "abstract": "Skin injuries and infections are an inevitable part of daily human life, particularly with chronic wounds, becoming an increasing socioeconomic burden. In treating skin infections and promoting wound healing, bioactive peptides may hold significant potential, particularly those possessing antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties. However, obtaining these peptides solely through traditional wet laboratory experiments is costly and time-consuming, and peptides identified by current computer-assisted predictive models largely lack validation of their effects via wet laboratory experiments. Consequently, this study aimed to integrate computer-assisted methods and traditional wet laboratory experiments to identify anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial peptides. We developed a computer-assisted mining pipeline to screen potential peptides from the epitopes of the major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II). The peptide AIMP1 was identified, with the ability to physically damage Escherichia coli by increasing bacterial cell membrane permeability and with the ability to inhibit inflammation by binding to endotoxin-lipopolysaccharide. Additionally, in an LPS-induced inflammation animal model, AIMP1 slightly increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-\u03b1, IL-1\u03b2, and IL-6), and in a skin wound infection animal model, AIMP1 effectively accelerated healing, reduced levels of these pro-inflammatory cytokines, and showed no acute hepatotoxicity or nephrotoxicity. In conclusion, this study not only developed a computer-assisted mining pipeline for identifying anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial peptides but also successfully pinpointed the peptide AIMP1, demonstrating its therapeutic potential for skin injury treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Water quality modelling in Water Distribution systems (WDS) is frequently affected by uncertainties in input variables such as base demand and decay constants. When utilizing simulation tools like EPANET, which necessitate exact numerical inputs, these uncertainties can result in inaccurate simulations. This study proposes a novel framework that leverages unsupervised machine learning, specifically a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMMs), to represent and integrate these uncertainties in the simulation. By classifying historical water demand into fuzzy clusters, the framework allows for certain linguistic inputs (e.g., \"high\" or \"low\" demand) to be used in water quality simulations. The framework also incorporates representative hourly demand patterns and temperature-dependent chlorine decay constants based on historical data correlations. Validations were conducted on the Anytown network using WNTR-EPANET, comparing simulated chlorine residuals with Validation data from 181 steady-state simulations. The simulation through the framework achieved a Jensen-Shannon Divergence (JSD) of <0.008 across all demand clusters, indicating high similarity between predicted and actual probability distributions . In comparison to other simulation scenarios tested, which exhibited increased variability (JSD > 0.18), the proposed framework demonstrated improved accuracy in representing chlorine residual distributions. The methodology is adaptable to other systems, if similar historical datasets containing key variables, such as flow rates and temperature, are provided. While the framework offers a more flexible and accurate approach to handling uncertainties in WDS, its effectiveness is contingent upon the availability of robust historical demand and temperature data for decay constant calibration.", 
    "abstract": "Monitoring and predicting the environmental impact of wastewater is essential for sustainable aquaculture. The environmental DNA metabarcoding-integrated supervised machine learning (SML) algorithm is an alternative method for ecological quality assessment and prediction. However, the ecological integrity of aquaculture wastewater and available effective input features for prediction remain unclear. Here, we used the multispecies biological integrity index (Ms-IBI) to provide a detailed categorization, identifying over half of the samples (53.85\u00a0%) as highly impacted, emphasizing the urgency to address ecological degradation; Ms-IBI emerged as a reliable label for SML models. By condensing 410 effective indicators and integrating 25 core operational taxonomic unit features with external stressors, an accuracy of 0.78 and R", 
    "abstract": "Maximizing safe resection in neuro-oncology has become paramount to improving patient survival and outcomes. Laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) offers similar survival benefits to traditional resection, alongside shorter hospital stays and faster recovery times. The extent of ablation (EOA) achieved using LITT is linked to patient outcomes, with greater EOA correlating with improved outcomes. However, the preoperative predictors for achieving supramaximal ablation (EOA \u2265 100%) are not well understood. By leveraging machine learning (ML) techniques, this study aimed to identify these predictors to enhance patient selection and therefore outcomes. The objective was to explore preoperative predictors for supramaximal EOA using ML in patients with glioblastoma.\nA retrospective study was conducted on the medical records of 254 patients undergoing LITT from 2013 to 2023 at a single tertiary center. Cohort criteria included age \u2265 18 years, diagnosis of glioblastoma, single-trajectory ablation, and a complete dataset. The study assessed preoperative clinical and radiographic factors, using EOA \u2265 100% as the endpoint. Five ML models were used: logistic regression, random forest (RF), gradient boosting, Gaussian naive Bayes, and support vector machine. Training and testing cohorts were subsequently assessed across ML models with fivefold cross-validation. Models were optimized using hyperparameter tuning. Performance was primarily quantified using the area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic curve.\nThe final cohort consisted of 72 patients. Among the ML models, RF achieved the highest AUC (mean \u00b1 SD 0.94 \u00b1 0.06). The leading models identified that lower preoperative volume, history of prior radiation therapy, history of prior craniotomy, preoperative neurological deficits, history of preoperative seizures, and distance from intracranial heat sinks were predictive of successful ablations in patients. Additionally, RF had the best mean metrics: accuracy 0.88, precision 0.87, specificity 0.87, and sensitivity 0.89.\nThis is the first study to investigate the role of ML for optimizing ablation volumes in LITT. These ML models suggest that low preoperative volumes, previous craniotomy, previous radiation therapy, no previous neurological deficits, larger catheter-heat sink distance, and the presence of preoperative seizures are important prognostic factors for predicting successful supramaximal ablations with LITT.", 
    "abstract": "Real-time monitoring of gait characteristics is crucial for applications in health monitoring, patient rehabilitation feedback, and telemedicine. However, the effective and stable acquisition and automatic analysis of gait information remain significant challenges. In this study, we present a flexible sensor based on a carbon nanotube/graphene composite conductive leather (CGL), which uses collagen fiber with a three-dimensional network structure as the flexible substrate. The CGL-based sensor demonstrates a high dynamic range, with notable pressure responses ranging from 0.6 to 14.5 kPa and high sensitivity (", 
    "abstract": "To create a machine-learning model for estimating the likelihood of post-retrograde intrarenal surgery (RIRS) sepsis.\nAll consecutive patients with kidney stone(s) only undergoing RIRS in 16 centers were prospectively included (January 2022-August 2023).\nadult, renal stone(s) only, CT scan (within three months), mid-stream urine culture (within 10 days).\nconcomitant ureteral stone, bilateral procedures. In case of symptomatic infection/asymptomatic bacteriuria, patients were given six days of antibiotics according to susceptibility profiles. All patients had antibiotics prophylaxis. Variables selected for the model: age, gender, age-adjusted Charlson Comorbidity Index, stone volume, indwelling preoperative bladder catheter, urine culture, single/multiple stones, indwelling preoperative stent/nephrostomy, ureteric access sheath, surgical time. Analysis was conducted using Python programming language, with Pandas library and machine learning models implemented using the Scikit-learn library. Machine learning algorithms tested: Decision Tree, Random Forest, Gradient Boosting. Overall performance was accurately estimated by K-Fold cross-validation with three folds.\n1552 patients were included. There were 20 (1.3%) sepsis cases, 16 (1.0%) septic shock cases, and three more cases (0.2%) of sepsis-related deaths. Random Forest model showed the best performance (precision\u2009=\u20091.00; recall\u2009=\u20090.86; F1 score\u2009=\u20090.92; accuracy\u2009=\u20090.92). A web-based interface of the predictive model was built and is available at https://emabal.pythonanywhere.com/ CONCLUSIONS: Our model can predict post-RIRS sepsis with high accuracy and might facilitate patient selection for day-surgery procedures and identify patients at higher risk of sepsis who deserve extreme attention for prompt identification and treatment.", 
    "abstract": "This study investigates the potential of leveraging molecular properties, as determined by MD-LOVIs software and machine learning techniques, to predict the ability of compounds to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Accurate prediction of BBB permeation is critical for the development of central nervous system (CNS) drugs. The study applies various machine learning models, including both classification and regression techniques, to predict BBB passage and molecular activity. Notably, classification models such as GBM-AWV (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.801), GLM-CN (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.808), SVMPoly-means (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.980), SVMPoly-AC (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.980), SVMPoly-MI_TI_SI (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.900), SVMPoly-GI (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.900), RF-means (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.870), and GLM-means (accuracy\u2009=\u20090.818) demonstrate high accuracy in predicting BBB passage. In contrast, regression models like ES-RLM-AG (R\nThe computational methods employed in this study include the MD-LOVIs software for generating molecular descriptors and several machine learning algorithms, including gradient boosting machines (GBM), generalized linear models (GLM), support vector machines (SVM) with polynomial kernels, random forests (RF), ensemble regression models, and instance-based learning algorithms. These models were trained and validated using various datasets to predict BBB passage and molecular activity, with the performance metrics reported for each model. Standard computational techniques were employed throughout, ensuring the reliability of the predictions.", 
    "abstract": "Mitochondrial complex activity controls a multitude of physiological processes by regulating the cellular metabolism. Current methods for evaluating mitochondrial complex activity mainly focus on single metabolic reactions within mitochondria. These methods often require fresh samples in large quantities for mitochondria purification or intact mitochondrial membranes for real-time monitoring. Confronting these limitations, we shifted the analytical perspective toward interactive metabolic networks at the whole-cell level to reflect mitochondrial complex activity. To this end, we compiled a panel of mitochondrial respiratory chain-mapped metabolites (MRCMs), whose perturbations theoretically provide an overall reflection on mitochondrial complex activity. By introducing N-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine and ", 
    "abstract": "Unlike with the energy, which is a scalar property, machine learning (ML) prediction of vector or tensor properties poses the additional challenge of achieving proper invariance (covariance) with respect to molecular rotation. For the energy gradients needed in molecular dynamics (MD), this symmetry is automatically fulfilled when taking analytic derivative of the energy, which is a scalar invariant (using properly invariant molecular descriptors). However, if the properties cannot be obtained by differentiation, other appropriate methods should be applied to retain the covariance. Several approaches have been suggested to properly treat this issue. For nonadiabatic couplings and polarizabilities, for example, it was possible to construct virtual quantities from which the above tensorial properties are obtained by differentiation and thus guarantee the covariance. Another possible solution is to build the rotational equivariance into the design of a neural network employed in the model. Here, we propose a simpler alternative technique, which does not require construction of auxiliary properties or application of special equivariant ML techniques. We suggest a three-step approach, using the molecular tensor of inertia. In the first step, the molecule is rotated using the eigenvectors of this tensor to its principal axes. In the second step, the ML procedure predicts the vector property relative to this orientation, based on a training set where all vector properties were in this same coordinate system. As the third step, it remains to transform the ML estimate of the vector property back to the original orientation. This rotate-predict-rotate (RPR) procedure should thus guarantee proper covariance of a vector property and is trivially extensible also to tensors such as polarizability. The RPR procedure has an advantage that the accurate models can be trained very fast for thousands of molecular configurations, which might be beneficial where many training sets are required (e.g., in active learning). We have implemented the RPR technique, using the MLatom and Newton-X programs for ML and MD, and performed its assessment on the dipole moment along MD trajectories of 1,2-dichloroethane.", 
    "abstract": "The global prevalence of dengue virus (DENV), a widespread flavivirus, has led to varied epidemiological impacts, economic burdens, and health consequences. The alarming increase in infections is exacerbated by the absence of approved antiviral agents against the DENV. Within flaviviruses, the NS3/NS2B serine protease plays a pivotal role in processing the viral polyprotein into distinct components, making it an attractive target for antiviral drug development. In this study, machine-learning (ML) techniques were employed to build predictive models for the screening of a library containing 32,000 protease inhibitors. Utilizing GNINA for structure-based virtual screening, the top potential candidates underwent a subsequent evaluation of their absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity properties. Selected compounds were subjected to molecular dynamics simulations and binding free energy calculations via MM/GBSA. The results suggest that comp530 possesses binding potential to DENV protease as a noncovalent inhibitor with multiple positions for chemical substitutions, presenting opportunities for optimizing their selectivity and specificity. However, other compounds predicted via ML models may still provide a promising start for covalent inhibitors.", 
    "abstract": "Sleep disturbances lead to negative health outcomes and caregiver burden, particularly in community settings. This study aimed to investigate a predictive model for sleep efficiency and its associated features in older adults living with dementia in their own homes.\nThis was an exploratory, observational study. A total of 69 older adults diagnosed with dementia were included in this study. Data were collected via actigraphy for sleep and physical activity for 14 days, a sweat patch for cytokines for 2-3 days, and a survey of diseases, medications, psychological and behavioral symptoms, functional status, and demographics at baseline. Using 730 days of actigraphy, sweat patches, and baseline data, the best prediction model for sleep efficiency was selected and further investigated to explore its associated top 10 features using machine learning analysis.\nThe CatBoost model was selected as the best predictive model for sleep efficiency. In order of importance, the most important features were sleep regularity, number of medications, dementia medication, daytime activity count, instrumental activities of daily living, neuropsychiatric inventory, hypnotics, occupation, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and waking hour lux.\nThis study established the best sleep efficiency predictive model among community-dwelling older adults with dementia and its associated features using machine learning and various sources, such as the Internet of Things. This study highlights the importance of individualized sleep interventions for community-dwelling older adults with dementia based on associated features.", 
    "abstract": "Organic electrode materials (OEMs), composed of abundant elements such as carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen, offer sustainable alternatives to conventional electrode materials that depend on finite metal resources. The vast structural diversity of organic compounds provides a virtually unlimited design space; however, exploring this space through Edisonian trial-and-error approaches is costly and time-consuming. In this work, we develop a new framework, SPARKLE, that combines computational chemistry, molecular generation, and machine learning to achieve zero-shot predictions of OEMs that simultaneously balance reward (specific energy), risk (solubility), and cost (synthesizability). We demonstrate that SPARKLE significantly outperforms alternative black-box machine learning algorithms on interpolation and extrapolation tasks. By deploying SPARKLE over a design space of more than 670,000 organic compounds, we identified \u22485000 novel OEM candidates. Twenty-seven of them were synthesized and fabricated into coin-cell batteries for experimental testing. Among SPARKLE-discovered OEMs, 62.9% exceeded benchmark performance metrics, representing a 3-fold improvement over OEMs selected by human intuition alone (20.8% based on six years of prior lab experience). The top-performing OEMs among the 27 candidates exhibit specific energy and cycling stability that surpass the state-of-the-art while being synthesizable at a fraction of the cost.", 
    "abstract": "Gastrointestinal (GI) cancers represent some of the most common and lethal malignancies globally, underscoring the urgent need for improved diagnostic strategies. Traditional diagnostic methods, while effective to some degree, are often invasive and unsuit-able for regular screenings.\nThis review article explores integrating machine learning (ML) with liquid biopsy techniques as a revolutionary approach to enhance the detection and monitoring of GI cancers. Liquid biopsies offer a non-invasive alternative for cancer detection through the analysis of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and other biomarkers, which when combined with ML, can significantly improve diagnostic accuracy and patient outcomes.\nWe conducted a comprehensive review of recent advancements in liquid biopsy and ML, focusing on their synergistic potential in the early detection of GI cancers. The review addresses the application of next-generation sequencing and digital droplet PCR in enhancing the sensitivity and specificity of liquid biopsies.\nMachine learning algorithms have demonstrated remarkable ability in navigating complex datasets and identifying diagnostically significant patterns in ctDNA and other circu-lating biomarkers. Innovations such as machine learning-enhanced \"fragmentomics\" and tomographic phase imaging flow cytometry illustrate significant strides in non-invasive cancer diagnostics, offering enhanced detection capabilities with high accuracy.\nThe integration of ML in liquid biopsy represents a transformative step in the early detection and personalized treatment of GI cancers. Future research should focus on overcoming current limitations, such as the heterogeneity of tumor-derived genetic materials and the standardization of liquid biopsy protocols, to fully realize the potential of this technol-ogy in clinical settings.", 
    "abstract": "Most patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are diagnosed at an advanced stage of the disease, which complicates treatment due to a heightened risk of metastasis. Consequently, the timely identification of biomarkers associated with lymph node metastasis is essential for improving the clinical management of NSCLC patients. In this research, the WGCNA algorithm was utilized to pinpoint genes linked to lymph node metastasis in NSCLC. A cluster analysis was carried out to investigate how these genes correlate with the prognosis and the outcomes of immunotherapy for NSCLC patients. Following this, diagnostic and prognostic models were created and validated through various machine learning methodologies. The random forest technique highlighted the importance of ARHGAP11A, leading to an in-depth examination of its role in NSCLC. By analyzing 78 tissue chip samples from NSCLC patients, the study confirmed the association between ARHGAP11A expression, patient prognosis, and lymph node metastasis. Finally, the influence of ARHGAP11A on NSCLC cells was assessed through cell function experiments. This research utilized the WGCNA technique to identify 25 genes that are related to lymph node metastasis, clarifying their connections with tumor invasion, growth, and the activation of stemness pathways. Cluster analysis revealed significant associations between these genes and lymph node metastasis in NSCLC, especially concerning immunotherapy and targeted treatments. A diagnostic system that combines various machine learning approaches demonstrated strong efficacy in forecasting both the diagnosis and prognosis of NSCLC. Importantly, ARHGAP11A was identified as a key prognostic gene associated with lymph node metastasis in NSCLC. Molecular docking analyses suggested that ARHGAP11A has a strong affinity for targeted therapies within NSCLC. Additionally, immunohistochemical assessments confirmed that higher levels of ARHGAP11A expression correlate with unfavorable outcomes for NSCLC patients. Experiments on cells showed that reducing ARHGAP11A expression can hinder the proliferation, metastasis, and stemness traits of NSCLC cells. This investigation reveals the novel insight that ARHGAP11A may function as a potential biomarker connected to lymph node metastasis in NSCLC. Moreover, reducing the expression of ARHGAP11A has demonstrated the ability to diminish tumor stemness characteristics, presenting a promising opportunity for improving treatment strategies for this condition.", 
    "abstract": "Surgeons can experience elevated cognitive workload (CWL) during surgery due to various factors including operative technicalities and the environmental demands of the operating theatre. This can result in poorer outcomes and have a detrimental effect on surgeon well-being. The objective measurement of CWL provides a potential solution to facilitate classification of workload levels, however results are variable when physiological measures are used in isolation. The aim of this study is to develop and propose a multimodal machine learning (ML) approach to classify CWL levels using a bespoke sensor platform and to develop a ML approach to impute missing pupil diameter measures due to the effect of blinking or noise.\nTen surgical trainees performed a simulated laparoscopic cholecystectomy under cognitive conditions of increasing difficulty, namely a modified auditory N-back task with increasing difficulty and a verbal clinical scenario. Physiological measures were recorded using a novel platform (MAESTRO). Electroencephalography (EEG) and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) were used as direct measures of CWL. Indirect measures included electromyography (EMG), electrocardiography (ECG) and pupil diameter (PD). A reference point for validation was provided by subjective assessment of perceived CWL using the SURG-TLX. A multimodal machine learning approach that systematically implements a CNN-BiLSTM, a binary version of the metaheuristic Manta Ray Foraging Optimisation (BMRFO) and a version of Fuzzy C-Means (FCM) called Optimal Completion Strategy (OCS) was used to classify the associated perceived CWL state.\nCompared to other state of the art classification techniques, cross-validation results for the classification of CWL levels suggest that the CNN-BLSTM and BMRFO approach provides an average accuracy of 97\u00a0% based on the confusion matrix. Additionally, OCS demonstrated a superior average performance of 9.15\u00a0% in terms of Root-Mean-Square-Error (RMSE) when compared to other PD imputation methods.\nPerceived CWL levels were correctly classified using a multimodal ML approach. This approach provides a potential route to accurately classify CWL levels, which may have application in future surgical training and assessment programs as well as the development of cognitive support systems in the operating room.", 
    "abstract": "Based on observed meteorological elements, photolysis rates (J-values) and pollutant concentrations, an automated J-values predicting system by machine learning (J-ML) has been developed to reproduce and predict the J-values of O", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Radon (Rn) is a naturally occurring radioactive gas that poses a significant lung cancer risk. Subsurface fault zones can act as pathways for fluid and gas migration, potentially amplifying Rn accumulation. This study investigates the impact of fault zones on Rn concentrations within a 25\u00a0km", 
    "abstract": "Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder in children. Early intervention is effective. Investigation of novel blood biomarkers of ASD facilitates early detection and intervention.\nSequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra-mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS)-based proteomics technology and 30 DSM-V defined ASD cases versus age- and sex-matched controls were initially evaluated, and candidate biomarkers were screened using machine learning methods. Candidate biomarkers were validated by targeted proteomics multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) analysis using an independent group of 30 ASD cases vs. controls.\nFifty-one differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified by SWATH analysis. They were associated with the immune response, complements and coagulation cascade pathways, and apolipoprotein-related metabolic pathways. Machine learning analysis screened 10 proteins as biomarker combinations (TFRC, PPBP, APCS, ALDH1A1, CD5L, SPARC, FGG, SHBG, S100A9, and PF4V1). In the MRM analysis, four proteins (PPBP, APCS, FGG, and PF4V1) were significantly different between the groups, and their combination as a screening indicator showed high potential (AUC = 0.8087, 95\u00a0% confidence interval 0.6904-0.9252, p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001).\nOur study provides data that suggests that a few plasma proteins have potential use in screening for ASD.", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning (ML), a branch of artificial intelligence that uses algorithms to learn from data and make predictions, offers a pathway towards more personalized and tailored surgical treatments. This approach is particularly relevant to prevalent joint diseases such as osteoarthritis (OA). In contrast to end-stage disease, where joint arthroplasty provides excellent results, early stages of OA currently lack effective therapies to halt or reverse progression. Accurate prediction of OA progression is crucial if timely interventions are to be developed, to enhance patient care and optimize the design of clinical trials.\nA systematic review was conducted in accordance with PRISMA guidelines. We searched MEDLINE and Embase on 5 May 2024 for studies utilizing ML to predict OA progression. Titles and abstracts were independently screened, followed by full-text reviews for studies that met the eligibility criteria. Key information was extracted and synthesized for analysis, including types of data (such as clinical, radiological, or biochemical), definitions of OA progression, ML algorithms, validation methods, and outcome measures.\nOut of 1,160 studies initially identified, 39 were included. Most studies (85%) were published between 2020 and 2024, with 82% using publicly available datasets, primarily the Osteoarthritis Initiative. ML methods were predominantly supervised, with significant variability in the definitions of OA progression: most studies focused on structural changes (59%), while fewer addressed pain progression or both. Deep learning was used in 44% of studies, while automated ML was used in 5%. There was a lack of standardization in evaluation metrics and limited external validation. Interpretability was explored in 54% of studies, primarily using SHapley Additive exPlanations.\nOur systematic review demonstrates the feasibility of ML models in predicting OA progression, but also uncovers critical limitations that currently restrict their clinical applicability. Future priorities should include diversifying data sources, standardizing outcome measures, enforcing rigorous validation, and integrating more sophisticated algorithms. This paradigm shift from predictive modelling to actionable clinical tools has the potential to transform patient care and disease management in orthopaedic practice.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we aimed to identify an essential blood molecular signature for chacterizing the progression of sepsis-induced acute lung injury using integrated bioinformatic and machine learning analysis. The results showed that a total of 88 functionally related ALI-associated hub genes in sepsis were identified by MCODE analysis and they were enriched in infection and inflammtory responses, lung and cardiovascular disease pathways. These hub genes stratified ALI-sepsis and sepsis and further stratified two subtypes of sepsis-ALI with differential ALI scores, hub gene expression patterns, and levels of immune cells. A seven-gene signature including TNFRSF1A, NFKB1, FCGR2A, NFE2L2, ICAM1 and SOCS3 and PDCD1 was derived from the hub genes. These genes were significantly implicated in immune and metabolism pathways. They were expressed in six circulatory immune cells based on analysis of a single cell RNA sequencing dataset. Furthermore, the seven-gene signature was corrobarated using by integrating 12 machine learning algorithms. A premium three-gene signature NFE2L2, FCGR2A and PDCD1 for differentiating ALI-sepsis from sepsis were also derived from the seven-gene signature based on analysis of the seven core hub genes by the machine learning algorithms. Furthermore, the expressions of hub genes were verified in sepsis mice models. Therefore, our study provided an avenue to develop a molecular tool for identify and characterize progression of acute lung injury associated with sepsis.", 
    "abstract": "The oral route is the most preferred route for drug delivery, due to which the largest share of the pharmaceutical market is represented by oral drugs. Human intestinal absorption (HIA) is closely related to oral bioavailability making it an important factor in predicting drug absorption. In this study, we focus on predicting drug permeability at HIA as a marker for oral bioavailability. A set of 2648 compounds were collected from some early as well as recent works and curated to build a robust dataset. Five machine learning (ML) algorithms have been trained with a set of molecular descriptors of these compounds which have been selected after rigorous feature engineering. Additionally, two deep learning models - graph convolution neural network (GCNN) and graph attention network (GAT) based model were developed using the same set of compounds to exploit the predictability with automated extracted features. The numerical analyses show that out the five ML models, Random forest and LightGBM could predict with an accuracy of 87.71\u202f% and 86.04\u202f% on the test set and 81.43\u202f% and 77.30\u202f% with the external validation set respectively. Whereas with the GCNN and GAT based models, the final accuracy achieved was 77.69\u202f% and 78.58\u202f% on test set and 79.29\u202f% and 79.42\u202f% on the external validation set respectively. We believe deployment of these models for screening oral drugs can provide promising results and therefore deposited the dataset and models on the GitHub platform (https://github.com/hridoy69/HIA).", 
    "abstract": "Early and reliable prognostication in post-cardiac arrest patients remains challenging, with various factors linked to return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), survival, and neurological results. Machine learning and deep learning models show promise in improving these predictions. This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluates how effective these approaches are in predicting clinical outcomes at different time points using structured data.\nThis study followed PRISMA guidelines, involving a comprehensive search across PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science databases until March 2024. Studies aimed at predicting ROSC, survival (or mortality), and neurological outcomes after cardiac arrest through the application of machine learning or deep learning techniques with structured data were included. Data extraction followed the guidelines of the CHARMS checklist, and the bias risk was evaluated using PROBAST tool. Models reporting the AUC metric with 95\u00a0% confidence intervals were incorporated into the quantitative synthesis and meta-analysis.\nAfter extracting 2,753 initial records, 41 studies met the inclusion criteria, yielding 97 machine learning and 16 deep learning models. The pooled AUC for predicting favorable neurological outcomes (CPC 1 or 2) at hospital discharge was 0.871 (95\u00a0% CI: 0.813 - 0.928) for machine learning models and 0.877 (95\u00a0% CI: 0.831-0.924) across deep learning algorithms. For survival prediction, this value was found to be 0.837 (95\u00a0% CI: 0.757-0.916). Considerable heterogeneity and high risk of bias were observed, mainly attributable to inadequate management of missing data and the absence of calibration plots. Most studies focused on pre-hospital factors, with age, sex, and initial arrest rhythm being the most frequent features.\nPredictive models utilizing AI-based approaches, including machine and deep learning models exhibit enhanced effectiveness compared to previous regression algorithms, but significant heterogeneity and high risk of bias limit their dependability. Evaluating state-of-the-art deep learning models tailored for tabular data and their clinical generalizability can enhance outcome prediction after cardiac arrest.", 
    "abstract": "Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the deadliest malignancies globally, with high incidence and mortality rates. Early detection is crucial for improving treatment success rates and patient survival. However, due to the difficulty in detecting early symptoms, many cases are diagnosed at advanced stages, necessitating more sensitive and accurate detection methods. This study proposes a novel approach combining the Principal Component Analysis (PCA)-Dynamic Weighted Nearest Neighbor (DWNN) model with Surface-Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS) technology to detect the serum of CRC mice at different stages. Establishing the CRC mice model, serum samples were collected for further analysis. An Au Nanocluster (AuNC) substrate was synthesized to ensure optimal SERS enhancement. The PCA-DWNN recognition model was constructed to classify the SERS spectra of CRC at different stages. The synthesized AuNC substrate has high sensitivity, good reproducibility, uniformity, and stability, making it a high-performance nanomaterial. The PCA-DWNN model has significant advantages in identifying high-dimensional and complex SERS spectra, offering excellent classification accuracy and robustness, with an accuracy rate of 97.5%. By analyzing the PCA loading plot, it was observed that as CRC progressed, the content and structure of proteins, lipids, amino acids, and carbohydrates in the serum changed, reflected in different characteristic peaks in the SERS spectra. This study suggests that SERS combined with PCA-DWNN has potential in the early detection of CRC, possibly providing a novel approach for clinical diagnostics.", 
    "abstract": "Micronutrient detection and identification at the single-molecule level are paramount for both clinical and home diagnostics. Analytical tools such as high-performance liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry have been widely used but include a high instrument cost and prolonged analysis time. Here, as a model system, by merging nanopore signatures with machine learning algorithms, we propose an automated electric sensing strategy to identify vitamin B1 and its phosphorylated derivatives with good accuracy. Further, the relationship between vitamin B1 dynamics and nanopore signatures is examined. To understand the machine-decision-making process, Shapley additive explanations are made. Using a machine learning aided solid-state nanopore, we pave the way for next-generation micronutrient detection.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD), a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, presents significant challenges in drug development due to its multifactorial nature and complex pathophysiology. The AlzyFinder Platform, introduced in this study, addresses these challenges by providing a comprehensive, free web-based tool for parallel ligand-based virtual screening and network pharmacology, specifically targeting over 85 key proteins implicated in AD. This innovative approach is designed to enhance the identification and analysis of potential multitarget ligands, thereby accelerating the development of effective therapeutic strategies against AD. AlzyFinder Platform incorporates machine learning models to facilitate the ligand-based virtual screening process. These models, built with the XGBoost algorithm and optimized through Optuna, were meticulously trained and validated using robust methodologies to ensure high predictive accuracy. Validation included extensive testing with active, inactive, and decoy molecules, demonstrating the platform's efficacy in distinguishing active compounds. The models are evaluated based on balanced accuracy, precision, and F1 score metrics. A unique soft-voting ensemble approach is utilized to refine the classification process, integrating the strengths of individual models. This methodological framework enables a comprehensive analysis of interaction data, which is presented in multiple formats such as tables, heat maps, and interactive Ligand-Protein Interaction networks, thus enhancing the visualization and analysis of drug-protein interactions. AlzyFinder was applied to screen five molecules recently reported (and not used to train or validate the ML models) as active compounds against five key AD targets. The platform demonstrated its efficacy by accurately predicting all five molecules as true positives with a probability greater than 0.70. This result underscores the platform's capability in identifying potential therapeutic compounds with high precision. In conclusion, AlzyFinder's innovative approach extends beyond traditional virtual screening by incorporating network pharmacology analysis, thus providing insights into the systemic actions of drug candidates. This feature allows for the exploration of ligand-protein and protein-protein interactions and their extensions, offering a comprehensive view of potential therapeutic impacts. As the first open-access platform of its kind, AlzyFinder stands as a valuable resource for the AD research community, available at http://www.alzyfinder-platform.udec.cl with supporting data and scripts accessible via GitHub https://github.com/ramirezlab/AlzyFinder.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Within-disorder heterogeneity complicates mapping the neurobiological features of psychopathology to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders conceptualizations. The present study explored the patterns of diagnostic classification errors among disorders with commonly co-occurring features to examine this heterogeneity. Classification analyses were conducted with the University of California, Los Angeles Phenomics Study database using a support-vector classifier to differentiate disorders via whole brain task-based functional connectivity, predicting that model misclassifications would provide insight about brain connectivity characteristics shared across disorders. Whether symptoms and specific brain networks could account for misclassification rates was also explored. The classification model performed better than chance (44% accuracy, p = .01) and revealed that misclassification of schizophrenia (SCZ) as bipolar disorder (BD; 38%) and BD as SCZ (36%) was symmetrical. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) was misclassified as BD at the highest rate (46%) and higher than the converse (17%). SCZ and ADHD were misclassified least (15% SCZ as ADHD and 22% ADHD as SCZ). Considerable variance in misclassification of SCZ as BD (R2 = .83) and BD as SCZ (R2 = .71) could be accounted for by symptoms of both SCZ and BD. Permutation testing revealed disorder- and network-specific effects, with certain networks improving classification accuracy and others hindering it for specific disorders. An approach focused on classification errors replicated known disorder overlap, producing errors in the expected configuration. Further, it identified clinical and neural features within and across diagnostic categories that contribute to disorder misclassification and within-disorder heterogeneity. This approach may facilitate neurobiologically informed phenotypic differentiation within diagnostic groups. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).", 
    "abstract": "Brain structure correlates of obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) remain poorly understood as limited OCPD assessment has precluded well-powered studies. Here, we tested whether machine learning (ML; elastic net regression, gradient boosting machines, support vector regression with linear and radial kernels) could estimate OCPD scores from personality data and whether ML-predicted scores are associated with indices of brain structure (cortical thickness and surface area and subcortical volumes). Among older adults (ns = 898-1,606) who completed multiple OCPD assessments, ML elastic net regression with Revised NEO Personality Inventory personality items as features best predicted Five-Factor Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory-Short Form (FFOCI-SF) scores, root-mean-squared error (RMSE)/SD = 0.66; performance generalized to a sample of college students (n = 175; RMSE/SD = 0.51). Items from all five-factor model personality traits contributed to predicted FFOCI-SF (p-FFOCI-SF) scores; conscientiousness and openness items were the most influential. In college students (n = 1,253), univariate analyses of cortical thickness, surface area, and subcortical volumes revealed only a positive association between p-FFOCI-SF and right superior frontal gyrus cortical thickness after adjusting for multiple testing (b = 2.21, p = .0014; all other |b|s < 1.04; all other ps > .009). Multivariate ML models of brain features predicting FFOCI, conscientiousness, and neuroticism performed poorly (RMSE/SDs > 1.00). These data reveal that all five-factor model traits contribute to maladaptive OCPD traits and identify greater right superior frontal gyrus cortical thickness as a promising correlate of OCPD for future study. Broadly, this study highlights the utility of ML to estimate unmeasured psychopathology phenotypes in neuroimaging data sets but that our application of ML to neuroimaging may not resolve unreliable associations and small effects characteristic of univariate psychiatric neuroimaging research. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).", 
    "abstract": "Traditional mental health diagnoses rely on symptom-based classifications. Yet this approach can oversimplify clinical presentations as diagnoses often do not adequately map onto neurobiological features. Alternatively, our study used structural imaging data and a semisupervised machine learning technique, heterogeneity through discriminative analysis, to identify neurobiological subtypes in 9- to 10-year-olds with high psychopathology endorsements (n = 9,027). Our model revealed two stable neurobiological subtypes (adjusted Rand index = 0.38). Subtype 1 showed smaller structural properties, elevated conduct problems and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptoms, and impaired cognitive performance compared to Subtype 2 and typically developing youth. Subtype 2 had larger structural properties, cognitive abilities comparable to typically developing youth, and elevated internalizing symptoms relative to Subtype 1 and typically developing youth. These subtypes remained stable in their neurobiological characteristics, cognitive ability, and associated psychopathology traits over time. Taken together, our data-driven approach uncovered evidence of neural heterogeneity as demonstrated by structural patterns that map onto divergent profiles of psychopathology symptoms and cognitive performance in youth. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).", 
    "abstract": "The promotion of health and provision of care services for new recruits are issues of constant concern for military leaders and healthcare providers, as they are crucial to maintaining and operating military forces. The enhancement of military personnel's empowerment has been recognized as a core value in promoting health perception. However, the pathways between military personnel's sense of empowerment and health perception have not been thoroughly explored. The primary aim of this study is to examine the predictive power of different dimensions of empowerment (personal, interpersonal, and socio-political) on new recruits' health perception, and to further observe differences among subgroups, which will help us grasp the nuances of future health intervention measures. The research data were extracted from the \"Military Career Development Study,\" analyzing personal empowerment data from Wave 1 (W1) and perceived health data from Wave 2 (W2) (N\u2009=\u20092,232). In terms of analytical methods, five ML classifiers, including Decision Tree, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine, AdaBoost, and k-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) algorithms, were used for prediction in both the full sample and subsamples (gender and socioeconomic status). Results show that among the five ML classifiers, the Decision Tree performed best overall, achieving a prediction accuracy of 95.4%. The results by gender show that the ML models perform best for both males and females with the Decision Tree and Random Forest methods. For the Decision Tree, the accuracy rates were 94.9% for males and 95.1% for females; the F1 scores were 92.9% for males and 93.2% for females. For the Random Forest, the accuracy rates were 94.9% for males and 95.4% for females; the F1 scores were 92.7% for males and 93.2% for females. Regarding SES, the Decision Tree and Random Forest methods performed best. In the SES Low group, both methods achieved a prediction accuracy of 95.6% and an F1 score of 93.7%; in the SES high group, they achieved a prediction accuracy of 95.4% and an F1 score of 93.3%. However, the contribution of different dimensions of empowerment features varied significantly among subgroups. These findings can provide important information on the differences in health perception among military personnel.", 
    "abstract": "Wearable devices equipped with high-performance flexible sensors that can identify diverse physical information free from batteries are playing an indispensable role in various fields. However, previous studies on flexible sensors have primarily focused on their elasticity and temperature-sensing capability, with few reports on material identification. In this paper, a thermogalvanic dual-network hydrogel is fabricated with [Fe(CN)", 
    "abstract": "Accurate estimation of chlorophyll is essential for monitoring maize health and growth, for which hyperspectral imaging provides rich data. In this context, this paper presents an innovative method to estimate maize chlorophyll by combining hyperspectral indices and advanced machine learning models. The methodology of this study focuses on the development of machine learning models using proprietary hyperspectral indices to estimate corn chlorophyll content. Six advanced machine learning models were used, including robust linear stepwise regression, support vector machines (SVM), fine Gaussian SVM, Matern 5/2 Gaussian stepwise regression, and three-layer neural network. The MRMR algorithm was integrated into the process to improve feature selection by identifying the most informative spectral bands, thereby reducing data redundancy and improving model performance. The results showed significant differences in the performance of the six machine learning models applied to chlorophyll estimation. Among the models, the Matern 5/2 Gaussian process regression model showed the highest prediction accuracy. The model achieved R", 
    "abstract": "The marine microalga \nA novel integrated experimental approach was developed, analyzing the effect of varying phytohormone types and concentrations on fucoxanthin production in \nThe findings revealed that the Random Forest (RF) model was highly significant with a high \nThis study highlights the potential of machine learning models, particularly Random Forest, to optimize parameters influencing microalgal growth and fucoxanthin production. This approach offers a more efficient alternative to conventional methods, providing valuable insights into improving fucoxanthin production in microalgal cultivation. The findings suggest that leveraging diverse ML models can enhance the predictability and efficiency of fucoxanthin production, making it a promising tool for industrial applications.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Liver cancer, particularly Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), remains a significant global health concern due to its high prevalence and heterogeneous nature. Despite the existence of approved drugs for HCC treatment, the scarcity of predictive biomarkers limits their effective utilization. Integrating diverse data types to revolutionize drug response prediction, ultimately enabling personalized HCC management.\nIn this study, we developed multiple supervised machine learning models to predict treatment response. These models utilized classifiers such as logistic regression (LR), k-nearest neighbors (kNN), neural networks (NN), support vector machines (SVM), and random forests (RF) using a comprehensive set of molecular, biochemical, and immunohistochemical features as targets of three drugs: Pantoprazole, Cyanidin 3-glycoside (Cyan), and Hesperidin. A set of performance metrics for the complete and reduced models were reported including accuracy, precision, recall (sensitivity), specificity, and the Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC).\nNotably, (NN) achieved the best prediction accuracy where the combined model using molecular and biochemical features exhibited exceptional predictive power, achieving solid accuracy of 0.9693 \u2213 0.0105 and average area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.94 \u2213 0.06 coming from three cross-validation iterations. Also, found seven molecular features, seven biochemical features, and one immunohistochemistry feature as promising biomarkers of treatment response. This comprehensive method has the potential to significantly advance personalized HCC therapy by allowing for more precise drug response estimation and assisting in the identification of effective treatment strategies.", 
    "abstract": "South America is underrepresented in research on air pollution exposure disparities by sociodemographic factors, although such disparities have been observed in other parts of the world. We investigated whether exposure to and information about air pollution differs by sociodemographic factors in the city of Rio de Janeiro, the second most populous city in Brazil with dense urban areas, for 2012-2017. We developed machine learning-based models to estimate daily levels of O", 
    "abstract": "In this commentary, we elucidate three indispensable evaluation steps toward the real-world deployment of machine learning within the healthcare sector and demonstrate referable examples for diagnostic, therapeutic, and prognostic tasks. We encourage researchers to move beyond retrospective and within-sample validation, and step into the practical implementation at the bedside rather than leaving developed machine learning models in the dust of archived literature.", 
    "abstract": "Micronutrients have significant functional implications for the human immune response, and the quality of food is a major factor affecting the severity and mortality caused by HIV in individuals undergoing antiretroviral therapy. A decrease in CD4 lymphocyte count and an increase in CD8 lymphocyte count are the hallmarks of HIV infection, which causes the CD4/CD8 ratio to invert from a normal value of >1.6 to <1.0. In this study, we tried to analyze whether the nutritional status of HIV-positive patients has an impact on the CD4/CD8 ratio inversion by utilizing a machine learning (ML) algorithm.\nIn this study, 55 confirmed HIV-positive patients who had not started their anti-retroviral therapy were included after obtaining their informed, written consent. Moreover, 55 age-and sex-matched relatives and caregivers of the patients who tested negative in the screening were enrolled as controls. All individual patient data points were analyzed for model development with an 80-20 train-test split. Four trace elements, zinc (Zn), phosphate (P), magnesium (Mg), and calcium (Ca), were utilized by implementing a random forest classifier. The target of the study was the inverted CD4/CD8 ratio.\nThe data of 110 participants were included in the analysis. The algorithm thus generated had a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 83%, with a likelihood ratio (LR+) of 4.8 and LR-of 0.24. The utilization of the ML algorithm adds to the limited evidence that currently exists regarding the role of micronutrients, especially trace elements, in the causation of immune risk. Our inherent strength lies in the fact that this study is one of the first studies to utilize an ML-based decision tree algorithm to classify immune risk in HIV patients.\nOur study uniquely corroborated the nutritional data to the immune risk in treatment-na\u00efve HIV patients through the utilization of a decision tree ML algorithm. This could subsequently be an important classification and prognostic tool in the hands of clinicians.", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning (ML) methodologies for detecting Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) are progressively gaining prevalence to manage the vast volume of processed information. Nevertheless, the black-box nature of ML algorithms and the heterogeneity within the data may result in varied interpretations across distinct studies. To avoid this, in this proposal, we present the design of a decision support system that integrates a machine learning model represented using the Semantic Web Rule Language (SWRL) in an ontology with specialized knowledge in neuropsychological tests, the NIO ontology. The system's ability to detect MCI subjects was evaluated on a database of 520 neuropsychological assessments conducted in Spanish and compared with other well-established ML methods. Using the ", 
    "abstract": "With machine learning (ML) carving a niche in diverse medical disciplines, its role in sepsis prediction, a condition where the 'golden hour' is critical, is of paramount interest. This study assesses the factors influencing the efficacy of ML models in sepsis prediction, aiming to optimize their use in clinical practice.\nWe searched Medline, PubMed, Google Scholar, and CENTRAL for studies published from inception to October 2023. We focused on studies predicting sepsis in real-time settings in adult patients in any hospital settings without language limits. The primary outcome was area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic. This meta-analysis was conducted according to PRISMA-NMA guidelines and Cochrane Handbook recommendations. A Network Meta-Analysis using the CINeMA approach compared ML models against traditional scoring systems, with meta-regression identifying factors affecting model quality.\nFrom 3,953 studies, 73 articles encompassing 457,932 septic patients and 256 models were analyzed. The pooled AUC for ML models was 0.825 and it significantly outperformed traditional scoring systems. Neural Network and Decision Tree models demonstrated the highest AUC metrics. Significant factors influencing AUC included ML model type, dataset type, and prediction window.\nThis study establishes the superiority of ML models, especially Neural Network and Decision Tree types, in sepsis prediction. It highlights the importance of model type and dataset characteristics for prediction accuracy, emphasizing the necessity for standardized reporting and validation in ML healthcare applications. These findings call for broader clinical implementation to evaluate the effectiveness of these models in diverse patient groups.\nhttps://inplasy.com/inplasy-2023-12-0062/, identifier, INPLASY2023120062.", 
    "abstract": "Uveal melanoma (UM) is adults' most common primary intraocular malignant tumor. It has been observed that 40% of patients experience distant metastasis during subsequent treatment. While there exist multigene models developed using machine learning methods to assess metastasis and prognosis, the immune microenvironment's specific mechanisms influencing the tumor microenvironment have not been clarified. Single-cell transcriptome sequencing can accurately identify different types of cells in a tissue for precise analysis. This study aims to develop a model with fewer genes to evaluate metastasis risk in UM patients and provide a theoretical basis for UM immunotherapy.\nRNA-seq data and clinical information from 79\u00a0\u03bcm patients from TCGA were used to construct prognostic models. Mechanisms were probed using two single-cell datasets derived from the GEO database. After screening for metastasis-related genes, enrichment analysis was performed using GO and KEGG. Prognostic genes were screened using log-rank test and one-way Cox regression, and prognostic models were established using LASSO regression analysis and multifactor Cox regression analysis. The TCGA-UVM dataset was used as internal validation and dataset GSE22138 as external validation data. A time-dependent subject work characteristic curve (time-ROC) was established to assess the predictive ability of the model. Subsequently, dimensionality reduction, clustering, pseudo-temporal analysis and cellular communication analysis were performed on GSE138665 and GSE139829 to explore the underlying mechanisms involved. Cellular experiments were also used to validate the relevant findings.\nBased on clinical characteristics and RNA-seq transcriptomic data from 79 samples in the TCGA-UVM cohort, 247 metastasis-related genes were identified. Survival models for three genes (SLC25A38, EDNRB, and LURAP1) were then constructed using lasso regression and multifactorial cox regression. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that the high-risk group was associated with poorer overall survival (OS) and metastasis-free survival (MFS) in UM patients. Time-dependent ROC curves demonstrated high predictive performance in 6\u00a0m, 18\u00a0m, and 30\u00a0m prognostic models. Cell scratch assay showed that the 24\u00a0h and 48\u00a0h migration rates of cells with reduced expression of the three genes were significantly higher than those of the si-NC group. CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells may play an important role in tumour metastasis as revealed by immune infiltration analysis. An increase in the percentage of cytotoxic CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells in the metastatic high-risk group was found in the exploration of single-cell transcriptome data. The communication intensity of cytotoxic CD8 was significantly enhanced. It was also found that the CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells in the two groups were in different states, although the number of CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells in the high-risk group increased, they were mostly in the exhausted and undifferentiated state, while in the low-risk group, the CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells were mostly in the functional state.\nWe developed a precise and stable 3-gene model to predict the metastatic risk and prognosis of patients. CD8\u2009+\u2009T cells exhaustion in the tumor microenvironment play a crucial role in UM metastasis.", 
    "abstract": "Phenotypes are important for patient classification, disease prognostication, and treatment customization. We aimed to identify distinct clinical phenotypes of children and adolescents hospitalized with SARS-CoV-2 infection, and to evaluate their prognostic differences.\nThe German Society of Pediatric Infectious Diseases (DGPI) registry is a nationwide, prospective registry for children and adolescents hospitalized with a SARS-CoV-2 infection in Germany. We applied hierarchical clustering for phenotype identification with variables including sex, SARS-CoV-2-related symptoms on admission, pre-existing comorbidities, clinically relevant coinfection, and SARS-CoV-2 risk factors. Outcomes of this study were: discharge status and ICU admission. Discharge status was categorized as: full recovery, residual symptoms, and unfavorable prognosis (including consequential damage that has already been identified as potentially irreversible at the time of discharge and SARS-CoV-2-related death). After acquiring the phenotypes, we evaluated their correlation with discharge status by multinomial logistic regression model, and correlation with ICU admission by binary logistic regression model. We conducted an analogous subgroup analysis for those aged\u2009<\u20091 year (infants) and those aged \u2a7e 1 year (non-infants).\nThe DGPI registry enrolled 6983 patients, through which we identified six distinct phenotypes for children and adolescents with SARS-CoV-2 which can be characterized by their symptom pattern: phenotype A had a range of symptoms, while predominant symptoms of patients with other phenotypes were gastrointestinal (95.9%, B), asymptomatic (95.9%, C), lower respiratory tract (49.8%, D), lower respiratory tract and ear, nose and throat (86.2% and 41.7%, E), and neurological (99.2%, F). Regarding discharge status, patients with D and E phenotype had the highest odds of having residual symptoms (OR: 1.33 [1.11, 1.59] and 1.91 [1.65, 2.21], respectively) and patients with phenotype D were significantly more likely (OR: 4.00 [1.95, 8.19]) to have an unfavorable prognosis. Regarding ICU, patients with phenotype D had higher possibility of ICU admission than staying in normal ward (OR: 4.26 [3.06, 5.98]), compared to patients with phenotype A. The outcomes observed in the infants and non-infants closely resembled those of the entire registered population, except infants did not exhibit typical neurological/neuromuscular phenotypes.\nPhenotypes enable pediatric patient stratification by risk and thus assist in personalized patient care. Our findings in SARS-CoV-2-infected population might also be transferable to other infectious diseases.", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to develop and evaluate radiomics-based machine learning (ML) models for predicting meningioma grades using multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The study utilized the BraTS-MEN dataset's training split, including 698 patients (524 with grade 1 and 174 with grade 2-3 meningiomas). We extracted 4872 radiomic features from T1, T1 with contrast, T2, and FLAIR MRI sequences using PyRadiomics. LASSO regression reduced features to 176. The data was split into training (60%), validation (20%), and test (20%) sets. Five ML algorithms (TabPFN, XGBoost, LightGBM, CatBoost, and Random Forest) were employed to build models differentiating low-grade (grade 1) from high-grade (grade 2-3) meningiomas. Hyperparameter tuning was performed using Optuna, optimizing model-specific parameters and feature selection. The CatBoost model demonstrated the best performance, achieving an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.838 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.689-0.935], precision of 0.492 (95% CI: 0.371-0.623), recall of 0.838 (95% CI: 0.689-0.935), F1 score of 0.620 (95% CI: 0.495-0.722), accuracy of 0.729 (95% CI: 0.650-0.800), an area under the precision-recall curve (AUPRC) of 0.620 (95% CI: 0.433-0.753), and Brier score of 0.156 (95% CI: 0.122-0.200). Other models showed comparable performance, with mean AUROCs ranging from 0.752 to 0.784. The radiomics-based ML approach presented in this study showcases the potential for non-invasive and pre-operative grading of meningiomas using multiparametric MRI. Further validation on larger and independent datasets is necessary to establish the robustness and generalizability of these findings.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate tracking of harmful gas concentrations is essential to swiftly and effectively execute measures that mitigate the risks linked to air pollution, specifically in reducing its impact on living conditions, the environment, and the economy. One such prevalent pollutant in urban settings is nitrogen dioxide (NO", 
    "abstract": "This study employs machine learning and single-cell transcriptome sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis to unearth novel biomarkers and delineate the immune characteristics of ischemic stroke (IS), thereby contributing fresh insights into IS treatment strategies.Our research leverages gene expression data sourced from the GEO database. We undertake weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to filter pertinent genes and subsequently employ machine learning algorithms for the identification of feature genes. Concurrently, we rigorously execute quality control measures, dimensionality reduction techniques, and cell annotation on the scRNA-seq data to pinpoint differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The identification of core genes, denoted as Hub genes, among the feature genes and DEGs, is achieved through meticulous overlapping analysis. We illuminate the immune characteristics of these Hub genes using a suite of analytical tools, encompassing CIBERSORT, MCPcounter, and pseudotemporal analysis, all based on immune cell annotations and single-cell transcriptome data.Subsequently, we harness the CMap database to prognosticate potential therapeutic drugs and scrutinize their associations with the identified Hub genes. Our findings unveil robust linkages between three pivotal Hub genes-namely, RNF13, VASP, and CD163-and specific immune cell types such as T cells and neutrophils. These Hub genes predominantly manifest in macrophages and microglial cells within the scRNA-seq immune cell population, exhibiting variances across different stages of cellular differentiation. In conclusion, this study unearths highly pertinent biomarkers for IS diagnosis and elucidates IS-induced immune infiltration characteristics, thus providing a firm foundation for a comprehensive exploration of potential immune mechanisms and the identification of novel therapeutic targets for IS.", 
    "abstract": "Acute kidney injury (AKI) and contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) are common complications following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary angiography (CAG), presenting significant clinical challenges. Machine learning (ML) models offer promise for improving patient outcomes through early detection and intervention strategies.\nA comprehensive literature search following PRISMA guidelines was conducted in PubMed, Scopus, and Embase from inception to June 11, 2024. Study characteristics, ML models, performance metrics (AUC, accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, precision), and risk-of-bias assessment using the PROBAST tool were extracted. Statistical analysis used a random-effects model to pool AUC values, with heterogeneity assessed via the I\nFrom 431 initial studies, 14 met the inclusion criteria. Gradient Boosting Machine (GBM) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) models showed the highest pooled AUCs of 0.87 (95% CI: 0.82-0.92) and 0.85 (95% CI: 0.80-0.90), respectively, with low heterogeneity (I\nGBM and SVM models, with robust AUCs and low heterogeneity, are effective in predicting AKI and CIN post-PCI/CAG. RF, MLP, and XGBoost, despite competitive AUCs, showed considerable heterogeneity, emphasizing the need for further validation.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate operative scheduling is essential for the appropriation of operating room (OR) resources. We sought to implement a machine learning (ML) model to predict primary total hip (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA) case time.\nA total of 10,590 THAs and 12,179 TKAs between July 2017 and December 2022 were retrospectively identified. Cases were chronologically divided into training, validation, and test sets. The test set cohort included 1,588 TKAs and 1,204 THAs. There were four machine learning algorithms developed: linear ridge regression (LR), random forest (RF), XGBoost (XGB), and explainable boosting machine (EBM). Each model's case time estimate was compared to the scheduled estimate measured in 15-minute \"wait\" time blocks (\"underbooking\") and \"excess\" time blocks (\"overbooking\"). Surgical case time was recorded, and SHAP (Shapley Additive exPlanations) values were assigned to patient characteristics, surgical information, and the patient's medical condition to understand feature importance.\nThe most predictive model input was \"median previous 30 procedure case times.\" The XGBoost model outperformed the other models in predicting both TKA and THA case times. The model reduced TKA 'excess time blocks' by 85 blocks (P < 0.001) and 'wait time blocks' by 96 blocks (P < 0.001). The model did not significantly reduce 'excess time blocks' in THA (P = 0.89) but did significantly reduce 'wait time blocks' by 134 blocks (P < 0.001). In total, the model improved TKA operative booking by 181 blocks (2,715 minutes) and THA operative booking by 138 blocks (2,070 minutes).\nMachine learning outperformed a traditional method of scheduling total joint arthroplasty (TJA) cases. The median time of the prior 30 surgical cases was the most influential on scheduling case time accuracy. As ML models improve, surgeons should consider machine learning utilization in case scheduling; however, prior 30 surgical cases may serve as an adequate alternative.", 
    "abstract": "Age-at-death estimation is usually done manually by experts. As such, manual estimation is subjective and greatly depends on the past experience and proficiency of the expert. This becomes even more critical if experts need to evaluate individuals with unknown population affinity or with affinity that they are not familiar with. The purpose of this study is to design a novel age-at-death estimation method allowing for automatic evaluation on computers, thus eliminating the human factor.\nWe used a traditional machine-learning approach with explicit feature extraction. First, we identified and described the features that are relevant for age-at-death estimation. Then, we created a multi-linear regression model combining these features. Finally, we analysed the model performance in terms of Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Bias Error (MBE), Slope of Residuals (SoR) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE).\nThe main result of this study is a population-independent method of estimating an individual's age-at-death using the acetabulum of the pelvis. Apart from data acquisition, the whole procedure of pre-processing, feature extraction and age estimation is fully automated and implemented as a computer program. This program is a part of a freely available web-based software tool called CoxAGE3D, which is available at https://coxage3d.fit.cvut.cz/. Based on our dataset, the MAE of the presented method is about 10.7 years. In addition, five population-specific models for Thai, Lithuanian, Portuguese, Greek and Swiss populations are also given. The MAEs for these populations are 9.6, 9.8, 10.8, 10.5 and 9.2 years, respectively. Our age-at-death estimation method is suitable for individuals with unknown population affinity and provides acceptable accuracy. The age estimation error cannot be completely eliminated, because it is a consequence of the variability of the ageing process of different individuals not only across different populations but also within a certain population.", 
    "abstract": "Plastic pollution is an extreme environmental threat, necessitating novel restoration solutions. The present investigation investigates the integration of machine learning (ML) techniques with catalytic degradation processes to improve plastic waste management. Catalytic degradation is emphasized for its efficiency and selectivity, while several machine learning techniques are assessed for their capacity to enhance these processes. The review goes into ML applications for forecasting catalyst performance, determining appropriate reaction conditions, and refining catalyst design to improve overall process performance. Briefing about the reinforcement, supervised, and unsupervised learning algorithms that handle all complex data and parameters is explained. A techno-economic study is provided, evaluating these ML-driven system's performance, affordability, and environmental sustainability. The paper reviews how the novel method integrating ML with catalytic degradation for plastic cleanup might alter the process, providing new insights into scalable and sustainable solutions. This review emphasizes the usefulness of these modern strategies in tackling the urgent problem of plastic pollution by offering a comprehensive examination.", 
    "abstract": "To train and validate machine learning-derived clinical decision algorithm (\nThis retrospective study included 458 consecutive primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) patients who underwent combined 4D-CT and sestamibi SPECT/CT (MIBI) with subsequent parathyroidectomy from February 2013 to September 2016. The study cohort was divided into training (first 400 patients) and validation sets (remaining 58 patients). Sixteen clinical, laboratory, and imaging variables were evaluated. A random forest algorithm selected the best predictor variables and generated a clinical decision algorithm with the highest performance (\nOf 16 variables, the algorithm selected 3 variables for optimal prediction: combined 4D-CT and MIBI using (1) sensitive reading, (2) specific reading, and (3) cross-product of serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels and outputted an \nMachine learning generated a clinical decision algorithm that accurately diagnosed hyperfunctioning parathyroid glands through classification into probability categories, which can be implemented for improved preoperative planning and convey diagnostic certainty.\nQuestion Can an ", 
    "abstract": "Facial expression recognition (FER) is significantly influenced by the cultural background (CB) of observers and the masking conditions of the target face. This study aimed to clarify these factors' impact on FER, particularly in machine-learning datasets, increasingly used in human-computer interaction and automated systems. We conducted an FER experiment with East Asian participants and compared the results with the FERPlus dataset, evaluated by Western raters. Our novel analysis approach focused on variability between images and participants within a \"majority\" category and the eye-opening rate of target faces, providing a deeper understanding of FER processes. Notable findings were differences in \"fear\" perception between East Asians and Westerners, with East Asians more likely to interpret \"fear\" as \"surprise.\" Masking conditions significantly affected emotion categorization, with \"fear\" perceived by East Asians for non-masked faces interpreted as \"surprise\" for masked faces. Then, the emotion labels were perceived as different emotions across categories in the masking condition, rather than simply lower recognition rates or confusion as in existing studies. Additionally, \"sadness\" perceived by Westerners was often interpreted as \"disgust\" by East Asians. These results suggest that one-to-one network learning models, commonly trained using majority labels, might overlook important minority response information, potentially leading to biases in automated FER systems. In conclusion, FER dataset characteristics differ depending on the target face's masking condition and the diversity among evaluation groups. This study highlights the need to consider these factors in machine-learning-based FER that relies on human-judged labels, to contribute to the development of more nuanced and fair automated FER systems. Our findings emphasize the novelty of our approach compared to existing studies and the importance of incorporating a broader range of human variability in FER research, setting the stage for future evaluations of machine learning classifiers on similar data.", 
    "abstract": "Sepsis is the leading cause of child death globally with low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) bearing a disproportionate burden of pediatric sepsis deaths. Limited diagnostic and critical care capacity and health worker shortages contribute to delayed recognition of advanced sepsis (severe sepsis, septic shock, and/or multiple organ dysfunction) in LMICs. The aims of this study were to 1) assess the feasibility of a wearable device for physiologic monitoring of septic children in a LMIC setting and 2) develop machine learning models that utilize readily available wearable and clinical data to predict advanced sepsis in children. This was a prospective observational study of children with sepsis admitted to an intensive care unit in Dhaka, Bangladesh. A wireless, wearable device linked to a smartphone was used to collect continuous recordings of physiologic data for the duration of each patient's admission. The correlation between wearable device-collected vital signs (heart rate [HR], respiratory rate [RR], temperature [T]) and manually collected vital signs was assessed using Pearson's correlation coefficients and agreement was assessed using Bland-Altman plots. Clinical and laboratory data were used to calculate twice daily pediatric Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (pSOFA) scores. Ridge regression was used to develop three candidate models for advanced sepsis (pSOFA > 8) using combinations of clinical and wearable device data. In addition, the lead time between the models' detection of advanced sepsis and physicians' documentation was compared. 100 children were enrolled of whom 41% were female with a mean age of 15.4 (SD 29.6) months. In-hospital mortality rate was 24%. Patients were monitored for an average of 2.2 days, with > 99% data capture from the wearable device during this period. Pearson's r was 0.93 and 0.94 for HR and RR, respectively) with r = 0.72 for core T). Mean difference (limits of agreement) was 0.04 (-14.26, 14.34) for HR, 0.29 (-5.91, 6.48) for RR, and -0.0004 (-1.48, 1.47) for core T. Model B, which included two manually measured variables (mean arterial pressure and SpO2:FiO2) and wearable device data had excellent discrimination, with an area under the Receiver-Operating Curve (AUC) of 0.86. Model C, which consisted of only wearable device features, also performed well, with an AUC of 0.78. Model B was able to predict the development of advanced sepsis more than 2.5 hours earlier compared to clinical documentation. A wireless, wearable device was feasible for continuous, remote physiologic monitoring among children with sepsis in a LMIC setting. Additionally, machine-learning models using wearable device data could discriminate cases of advanced sepsis without any laboratory tests and minimal or no clinician inputs. Future research will develop this technology into a smartphone-based system which can serve as both a low-cost telemetry monitor and an early warning clinical alert system, providing the potential for high-quality critical care capacity for pediatric sepsis in resource-limited settings.", 
    "abstract": "Crohn's disease (CD) presents significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges due to its unclear etiology, frequent relapses, and limited treatment options. Traditional monitoring often relies on invasive and costly gastrointestinal procedures. This study aimed to identify specific diagnostic markers for CD using advanced computational approaches. Four gene expression datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed, identifying differentially expressed genes (DEGs) through gene set enrichment analysis in R. Key biomarkers were selected using machine learning algorithms, including LASSO logistic regression, SVM\u2011RFE, and Random Forest, and their accuracy was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and nomogram models. Immune cell infiltration was analyzed using the CIBERSORT algorithm, which helped reveal associations between diagnostic markers and immune cell patterns in CD. From a training set of 605 CD samples and 82 normal controls, we identified eight significant biomarkers: LCN2, FOLH1, CXCL1, FPR1, S100P, IGFBP5, CHP2, and AQP9. The diagnostic model showed high predictive power (AUC=0.954) and performed well in external validation (AUC\u2009=\u20091). Immune cell infiltration analysis highlighted various immune cells involved in CD, with all diagnostic markers strongly linked to immune cell interactions. Our findings propose candidate hub genes and present a nomogram for CD diagnosis, providing potential diagnostic biomarkers for clinical applications in CD.", 
    "abstract": "Hydrogen is a clean-burning fuel that can be converted to other forms. of energy without generating any greenhouse gases. Currently, hydrogen is stored either by compression to high pressure (>700 bar) or cryogenic cooling to liquid form (<23 K). Therefore, it is essential to develop safe, reliable, and energy-efficient storage technology that can store hydrogen at lower pressures and temperatures. In this work, we systematically designed 2902 Mg-alkoxide-functionalized covalent-organic frameworks (COFs) and performed high-throughput (HT) computational screening for hydrogen storage applications at 111, 231, and 296 K. To accurately model the interaction between Mg-alkoxide sites and molecular hydrogen, we performed MP2 calculations to compute the hydrogen binding energy for different types of functionalized models, and the data were subsequently used to fit modified-Morse force field (FF) parameters. Using the developed FF models, we conducted HT grand canonical Monte Carlo (GCMC) simulations to compute hydrogen uptakes for both original and functionalized COFs. The generated data were subsequently used to evaluate the materials' gravimetric and volumetric storage performance at various temperatures (111, 231, and 296 K). Finally, we developed machine learning (ML) models to predict the hydrogen storage performance of functionalized structures based on the features of the original structures. The developed model showed excellent performance with a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.061 wt % and 0.456 g/L for predicting the gravimetric and volumetric deliverable capacities, enabling a quick evaluation of structures in a hypothetical COF database. The screening results demonstrated that the Mg-alkoxide functionalization yields greater improvements in volumetric H", 
    "abstract": "Conventional methods for evaluating of fish freshness based on physiological and biochemical methods are often destructive, complicated, and costly. This study aimed to predict the freshness of large yellow croaker which was sampled every second day in 9 consecutive days at 4\u00b0C, using computer vision technology combined with pupil color parameters and different machine learning algorithms (back propagation neural network, BPNN; radial basis function neural network; support vector regression; and random forest regression, RFR). In the process of model building, the RFR model provided the most accurate prediction for the value of total volatile basic nitrogen (TVB-N), with the R-square of the test set ( ", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "With age, sensory, cognitive, and motor abilities decline, and the risk for neurodegenerative disorders increases. These impairments influence the quality of life and increase the need for care, thus putting a high burden on society, the economy, and the healthcare system. Therefore, it is important to identify factors that influence healthy aging, particularly ones that are potentially modifiable through lifestyle choices. However, large-scale studies investigating the influence of multi-modal factors on a global description of healthy aging measured by multiple clinical assessments are sparse.\nWe propose a machine learning model that simultaneously predicts multiple cognitive and motor outcome measurements on a personalized level recorded from one learned composite score. This personalized composite score is derived from a large set of multi-modal components from the TREND cohort, including genetic, biofluid, clinical, demographic, and lifestyle factors.\nWe found that a model based on a single composite score was able to predict cognitive and motor abilities almost as well as a classical flexible regression model specifically trained for each single clinical score. In contrast to the flexible regression model, our composite score model is able to identify factors that globally influence cognitive and motoric abilities as measured by multiple clinical scores. The model identified several risk and protective factors for healthy aging and recovered physical exercise as a major, modifiable, protective factor.\nWe conclude that our low parametric modeling approach successfully recovered known risk and protective factors of healthy aging on a personalized level while providing an interpretable composite score. We suggest validating this modeling approach in other cohorts.", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive impairments, which can be caused by neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disease, represent a growing global health crisis with far-reaching implications for individuals, families, healthcare systems, and economies worldwide. Notably, neurodegenerative-induced cognitive impairment often presents a different pattern and severity compared to cerebrovascular-induced cognitive impairment. With the development of computational technology, machine learning techniques have developed rapidly, which offers a powerful tool in radiomic analysis, allowing a more comprehensive model that can handle high-dimensional, multivariate data compared to the traditional approach. Such models allow the prediction of the disease development, as well as accurately classify disease from overlapping symptoms, therefore facilitating clinical decision making. This review will focus on the application of machine learning-based radiomics on cognitive impairment caused by neurogenerative and cerebrovascular disease. Within the neurodegenerative category, this review primarily focuses on Alzheimer's disease, while also covering other conditions such as Parkinson's disease, Lewy body dementia, and Huntington's disease. In the cerebrovascular category, we concentrate on poststroke cognitive impairment, including ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, with additional attention given to small vessel disease and moyamoya\u00a0disease. We also review the specific challenges and limitations when applying machine learning radiomics, and provide our suggestion to overcome those limitations towards the end, and discuss what could be done for future clinical use.", 
    "abstract": "In their recent study published in the ", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "To explore the predictive performance on the need for surgical intervention in patients with adhesive small bowel obstruction (ASBO) using machine-learning (ML) algorithms and investigate the optimal timing for transition to surgery.\nOne hundred and six patients with ASBO who initially underwent long transnasal intestinal tube (LT) decompression were enrolled in this retrospective study. Traditional logistic regression analysis and ML algorithms were used to evaluate the risk of need for surgical intervention.\nNon-operative management (NOM) by LT decompression failed in 28 patients (26%). Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified a drainage volume \u2265665 ml via LT on day 1, interval between ASBO diagnosis and LT intubation, and small bowel dilatation at 48 h after LT intubation to be independent predictors of transition to surgery (odds ratios 7.10, 1.42, and 19.81, respectively; 95% confidence intervals 1.63-30.94, 1.00-2.02, and 3.04-129.10; \nThis is the first study to demonstrate that ML algorithm can predict the need for surgery in patients with ASBO. The guideline recommended period for initial NOM of 72 h seems to be reasonable. These findings can be used to develop a framework for earlier clinical decision-making in these patients.", 
    "abstract": "The thyroid is an essential endocrine organ in human body, and thyroid hormones (THs) are pivotal signaling molecules and mediators in various physiological processes. THs, particularly in their free form, play a critical role in regulating body temperature and in the metabolism of lipid and glucose, making the maintenance of TH levels crucial for human health. THs undergo a series of metabolic processes, producing TH metabolites (THMs). THMs are significant in endocrine regulation, such as 3,5-diiothyronine (3,5-T2) and 3-iodothyronamine (3-T1AM), which exhibit activities akin to THs. The production and distribution of THMs are intricately linked to the function of specific organs and tissues, highlighting the need for advanced research into the determination and mechanisms of THMs in body. Exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) can significantly affect the levels of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and THs. This review utilizes machine learning to analyze epidemiological data, identifying potential EDCs that pose risks of hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. Additionally, it delves into the toxicological mechanisms of these EDCs, examining their effects on TH production, binding processes, related proteins, and metabolic enzymes. This approach effectively bridges the gap between epidemiological studies and toxicological researches, laying the groundwork for future research trends. By integrating epidemiological studies with machine learning, this review offers insightful perspectives on the potential risks associated with chemical exposure and underscores the necessity for further research in understanding the impact of EDCs on TH metabolism and TH-related health effects.", 
    "abstract": "This article presents an in-depth investigation into the influence of anionic structures of ionic liquids (ILs) on gas-ionic liquid partition coefficients (log ", 
    "abstract": "The move toward electrification is critical for decarbonizing the energy sector but may exacerbate energy unaffordability without proper safeguards. Addressing this challenge requires capturing neighborhood-scale dynamics to uncover the blind spots in residential electricity inequality. Based on publicly available, multisourced remote sensing and census data, we develop a high-resolution, spatiotemporally explicit machine learning (ML) framework to predict tract-level monthly electricity consumption across the conterminous U.S. from 2013-2020. We then construct the electricity affordability gap (EAG) metric, defined as the gap between electricity bills and 3% of household income, to better identify energy-vulnerable communities over space and time. The results show that our framework largely improves the resolution of electricity consumption data while achieving an ", 
    "abstract": "Artificial Intelligence is playing a crucial role in healthcare by enhancing decision-making and data analysis, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic. This virus affects individuals across all age groups, but its impact is more severe on the elderly and those with underlying health issues like chronic diseases. This study aimed to develop a machine learning model to improve the prediction of COVID-19 in patients with acute respiratory symptoms. Data from 915 patients in two hospitals in Saudi Arabia were used, categorized into four groups based on chronic lung conditions and COVID-19 status. Four supervised machine learning algorithms-Random Forest, Bagging classifier, Decision Tree, and Logistic Regression-were employed to predict COVID-19. Feature selection identified 12 key variables for prediction, including CXR abnormalities, smoking status, and WBC count. The Random Forest model showed the highest accuracy at 99.07%, followed by Decision Tree, Bagging classifier, and Logistic Regression. The study concluded that machine learning algorithms, particularly Random Forest, can effectively predict and classify COVID-19 cases, supporting the development of computer-assisted diagnostic tools in healthcare.", 
    "abstract": "Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation intervention that shows promise as a potential treatment for depression. However, the clinical efficacy of tDCS varies, possibly due to individual differences in head anatomy affecting tDCS dosage. While functional changes in brain activity are more commonly reported in major depressive disorder (MDD), some studies suggest that subtle macroscopic structural differences, such as cortical thickness or brain volume reductions, may occur in MDD and could influence tDCS electric field (E-field) distributions. Therefore, accounting for individual anatomical differences may provide a pathway to optimize functional gains in MDD by formulating personalized tDCS dosage.\nTo address the dosing variability of tDCS, we examined a subsample of sixteen active-tDCS participants' data from the larger ELECT clinical trial (NCT01894815). With this dataset, individualized neuroimaging-derived computational models of tDCS current were generated for (1) classifying treatment response, (2) elucidating essential stimulation features associated with treatment response, and (3) computing a personalized dose of tDCS to maximize the likelihood of treatment response in MDD.\nIn the ELECT trial, tDCS was superior to placebo (3.2 points [95% CI, 0.7 to 5.5; P\u2009=\u20090.01]). Our algorithm achieved over 90% overall accuracy in classifying treatment responders from the active-tDCS group (AUC\u2009=\u20090.90, F1\u2009=\u20090.92, MCC\u2009=\u20090.79). Computed precision doses also achieved an average response likelihood of 99.981% and decreased dosing variability by 91.9%.\nThese findings support our previously developed precision-dosing method for a new application in psychiatry by optimizing the statistical likelihood of tDCS treatment response in MDD.", 
    "abstract": "New-onset atrial fibrillation (NOAF) is the most common arrhythmia in critically ill patients admitted to intensive care and is associated with poor prognosis and disease burden. Identifying high-risk individuals early is crucial. This study aims to create and validate a NOAF prediction model for critically ill patients using machine learning (ML).\nThe data came from two non-overlapping datasets from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care (MIMIC), with MIMIC-IV used for training and subset of MIMIC-III used as external validation. LASSO regression was used for feature selection. Eight ML algorithms were employed to construct the prediction model. Model performance was evaluated based on identification, calibration, and clinical application. The SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) method was used for visualizing model characteristics and individual case predictions.\nAmong 16,528 MIMIC-IV patients, 1520 (9.2%) developed AF post-ICU admission. A model with 23 variables was built, with XGBoost performing best, achieving an AUC of 0.891 (0.873-0.888) in validation and 0.769 (0.756-0.782) in external validation. Key predictors included age, mechanical ventilation, urine output, sepsis, blood urea nitrogen, percutaneous arterial oxygen saturation, continuous renal replacement therapy and weight. A risk probability greater than 0.6 was defined as high risk.\u00a0A friendly user interface had been developed for clinician use.\nWe developed a ML model to predict the risk of NOAF in critically ill patients without cardiac surgery and validated its potential as a clinically reliable tool. SHAP improves the interpretability of the model, enables clinicians to better understand the causes of NOAF, helps clinicians to prevent it in advance and improves patient outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "The global surge of environmental pollution exacerbates health issues, disease incidence, and economic strain. In China, the increasing healthcare costs of the elderly population necessitate addressing this challenge as part of the \"Healthy China\" strategy. We explore the impact of environmental quality on elderly healthcare expenses.\nThis study devised a comprehensive environmental quality index for 30 Chinese provinces, excluding Tibet, which was correlated with medical expenses for individuals older than 60\u00a0years, using China Family Panel Studies (CFPS) data. Because the traditional econometric model cannot solve the endogeneity problem and the selection of instrumental variables is subjective, a new machine learning algorithm is adopted based on the traditional ordinary least squares (OLS) model and the fixed effect model to conduct causal analysis to ensure the reliability of the results. Finally, heterogeneity analysis was conducted based on the generalized random forest algorithm.\nSouthern provinces such as Jiangxi and Guangxi exhibited superior environmental qualities. A regional analysis revealed a gradient where environmental quality decreased from west to east and from south to north. Both conventional and machine learning methodologies underscored a pivotal finding: enhanced environmental qualities significantly curtail elderly healthcare expenses. A heterogeneity assessment revealed that such improvements predominantly benefit elderly people in the eastern and central regions, with marginal impacts in the west. For different groups, the improvement of environmental quality can significantly reduce the medical expenditure of people aged 60 to 75, with bedtime hours between 9 and 11 PM and a lower household income.\nThis study, employing machine learning and traditional models, demonstrates that enhancements in environmental quality significantly reduce medical costs for the elderly in China, especially in the eastern and central regions, and among demographics such as individuals aged 60-75 and low-income households. These findings underscore the potential of environmental policies to lower medical costs within the \"Healthy China\" initiative framework. However, the study's scope is limited by the environmental quality index and the extent of data coverage, indicating a need for further research expansion.", 
    "abstract": "For patients with breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), most of the existing prediction models of pathologic complete response (pCR) using clinicopathological features were based on standard statistical models like logistic regression, while models based on machine learning mostly utilized imaging data and/or gene expression data. This study aims to develop a robust and accessible machine learning model to predict pCR using clinicopathological features alone, which can be used to facilitate clinical decision-making in diverse settings.\nThe model was developed and validated within the National Cancer Data Base (NCDB, 2018-2020) and an external cohort at the University of Chicago (2010-2020). We compared logistic regression and machine learning models, and examined whether incorporating quantitative clinicopathological features improved model performance. Decision curve analysis was conducted to assess the model's clinical utility.\nWe identified 56,209 NCDB patients receiving NACT (pCR rate: 34.0%). The machine learning model incorporating quantitative clinicopathological features showed the best discrimination performance among all the fitted models [area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC): 0.785, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.778-0.792], along with outstanding calibration performance. The model performed best among patients with hormone receptor positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative (HR+/HER2-) breast cancer (AUC: 0.817, 95% CI: 0.802-0.832); and by adopting a 7% prediction threshold, the model achieved 90.5% sensitivity and 48.8% specificity, with decision curve analysis finding a 23.1% net reduction in chemotherapy use. In the external testing set of 584 patients (pCR rate: 33.4%), the model maintained robust performance both overall (AUC: 0.711, 95% CI: 0.668-0.753) and in the HR+/HER2- subgroup (AUC: 0.810, 95% CI: 0.742-0.878).\nThe study developed a machine learning model ( https://huolab.cri.uchicago.edu/sample-apps/pcrmodel ) to predict pCR in breast cancer patients undergoing NACT that demonstrated robust discrimination and calibration performance. The model performed particularly well among patients with HR+/HER2- breast cancer, having the potential to identify patients who are less likely to achieve pCR and can consider alternative treatment strategies over chemotherapy. The model can also serve as a robust baseline model that can be integrated with smaller datasets containing additional granular features in future research.", 
    "abstract": "Ageing is one of the most important challenges in our society. Evaluating how one is ageing is important in many aspects, from giving personalized recommendations to providing insight for long-term care eligibility. Machine learning can be utilized for that purpose, however, user reservations towards \"black-box\" predictions call for increased transparency and explainability of results. This study aimed to explore the potential of developing a machine learning-based healthy ageing scale that provides explainable results that could be trusted and understood by informal carers.\nIn this study, we used data from 696 older adults collected via personal field interviews as part of independent research. Explanatory factor analysis was used to find candidate healthy ageing aspects. For visualization of key aspects, a web annotation application was developed. Key aspects were selected by gerontologists who later used web annotation applications to evaluate healthy ageing for each older adult on a Likert scale. Logistic Regression, Decision Tree Classifier, Random Forest, KNN, SVM and XGBoost were used for multi-classification machine learning. AUC OvO, AUC OvR, F1, Precision and Recall were used for evaluation. Finally, SHAP was applied to best model predictions to make them explainable.\nThe experimental results show that human annotations of healthy ageing could be modelled using machine learning where among several algorithms XGBoost showed superior performance. The use of XGBoost resulted in 0.92 macro-averaged AuC OvO and 0.76 macro-averaged F1. SHAP was applied to generate local explanations for predictions and shows how each feature is influencing the prediction.\nThe resulting explainable predictions make a step toward practical scale implementation into decision support systems. The development of such a decision support system that would incorporate an explainable model could reduce user reluctance towards the utilization of AI in healthcare and provide explainable and trusted insights to informal carers or healthcare providers as a basis to shape tangible actions for improving ageing. Furthermore, the cooperation with gerontology specialists throughout the process also indicates expert knowledge as integrated into the model.", 
    "abstract": "Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that results in death within a short time span (3-5 years). One of the major challenges in treating ALS is its highly heterogeneous disease progression and the lack of effective prognostic tools to forecast it. The main aim of this study was, then, to test the feasibility of predicting relevant clinical outcomes that characterize the progression of ALS with a two-year prediction horizon via artificial intelligence techniques using routine visits data.\nThree classification problems were considered: predicting death (binary problem), predicting death or percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) (multiclass problem), and predicting death or non-invasive ventilation (NIV) (multiclass problem). Two supervised learning models, a logistic regression (LR) and a deep learning multilayer perceptron (MLP), were trained ensuring technical robustness and reproducibility. Moreover, to provide insights into model explainability and result interpretability, model coefficients for LR and Shapley values for both LR and MLP were considered to characterize the relationship between each variable and the outcome.\nOn the one hand, predicting death was successful as both models yielded F1 scores and accuracy well above 0.7. The model explainability analysis performed for this outcome allowed for the understanding of how different methodological approaches consider the input variables when performing the prediction. On the other hand, predicting death alongside PEG or NIV proved to be much more challenging (F1 scores and accuracy in the 0.4-0.6 interval).\nIn conclusion, predicting death due to ALS proved to be feasible. However, predicting PEG or NIV in a multiclass fashion proved to be unfeasible with these data, regardless of the complexity of the methodological approach. The observed results suggest a potential ceiling on the amount of information extractable from the database, e.g., due to the intrinsic difficulty of the prediction tasks at hand, or to the absence of crucial predictors that are, however, not currently collected during routine practice.", 
    "abstract": "The design of the microelectromechanical system (MEMS) disc resonator gyroscope (DRG) structural topology is crucial for its physical properties and performance. However, creating novel high-performance MEMS DRGs has long been viewed as a formidable challenge owing to their enormous design space, the complexity of microscale physical effects, and time-consuming finite element analysis (FEA). Here, we introduce a new machine learning-driven approach to discover high-performance DRG topologies. We represent the DRG topology as pixelated binary matrices and formulate the design task as a path-planning problem. This path-planning problem is solved via deep reinforcement learning (DRL). In addition, we develop a convolutional neural network-based surrogate model to replace the expensive FEA to provide reward signals for DRL training. Benefiting from the computational efficiency of neural networks, our approach achieves a significant acceleration ratio of 4.03 \u00d7 10", 
    "abstract": "The kidney, an essential organ of the human body, can suffer pathological damage that can potentially have serious adverse consequences on the human body and even affect life. Furthermore, the majority of kidney-induced illnesses are frequently not readily identifiable in their early stages. Once they have progressed to a more advanced stage, they impact the individual's quality of life and burden the family and broader society. In recent years, to solve this challenge well, the application of machine learning techniques in renal medicine has received much attention from researchers, and many results have been achieved in disease diagnosis and prediction. Nevertheless, studies that have conducted a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of the field have yet to be identified.\nThis study employs bibliometric and visualization analyses to assess the progress of the application of machine learning in the renal field and to explore research trends and hotspots in the field.\nA search was conducted using the Web of Science Core Collection database, which yielded articles and review articles published from the database's inception to May 12, 2024. The data extracted from these articles and review articles were then analyzed. A bibliometric and visualization analysis was conducted using the VOSviewer, CiteSpace, and Bibliometric (R-Tool of R-Studio) software.\n2,358 papers were retrieved and analyzed for this topic. From 2013 to 2024, the number of publications and the frequency of citations in the relevant research areas have exhibited a consistent and notable increase annually. The data set comprises 3734 institutions in 91 countries and territories, with 799 journals publishing the results. The total number of authors contributing to the data set is 14,396. China and the United States have the highest number of published papers, with 721 and 525 papers, respectively. Harvard University and the University of California System exert the most significant influence at the institutional level. Regarding authors, Cheungpasitporn, Wisit, and Thongprayoon Charat of the Mayo Clinic organization were the most prolific researchers, with 23 publications each. It is noteworthy that researcher Breiman I had the highest co-citation frequency. The journal with the most published papers was \"Scientific Reports,\" while \"PLoS One\" had the highest co-citation frequency. In this field of machine learning applied to renal medicine, the article \"A Clinically Applicable Approach to Continuous Prediction of Future Acute Kidney Injury\" by Tomasev N et al., published in NATURE in 2019, emerged as the most influential article with the highest co-citation frequency. A keyword and reference co-occurrence analysis reveals that current research trends and frontiers in nephrology are the management of patients with renal disease, prediction and diagnosis of renal disease, imaging of renal disease, and development of personalized treatment plans for patients with renal disease. \"Acute kidney injury,\" \"chronic kidney disease,\" and \"kidney tumors\" are the most discussed diseases in medical research.\nThe field of renal medicine is witnessing a surge in the application of machine learning. On one hand, this study offers a novel perspective on applying machine learning techniques to kidney-related diseases based on bibliometric analysis. This analysis provides a comprehensive overview of the current status and emerging research areas in the field, as well as future trends and frontiers. Conversely, this study furnishes data on collaboration and exchange between countries, regions, institutions, journals, authors, keywords, and reference co-citations. This information can facilitate the advancement of future research endeavors, which aim to enhance interdisciplinary collaboration, optimize data sharing and quality, and further advance the application of machine learning in the renal field.", 
    "abstract": "To determine the association of machine learning-derived CT body composition and 90-day mortality after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) and to assess its predictive performance as a complement to Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score for mortality risk prediction.\nThis retrospective multi-center cohort study included patients who underwent TIPS from 1995 to 2018 and had a contrast-enhanced CT abdomen within 9\u00a0months prior to TIPS and at least 90 days of post-procedural clinical follow-up. A machine learning algorithm extracted CT body composition metrics at L3 vertebral level including skeletal muscle area (SMA), skeletal muscle index (SMI), skeletal muscle density (SMD), subcutaneous fat area (SFA), subcutaneous fat index (SFI), visceral fat area (VFA), visceral fat index (VFI), and visceral-to-subcutaneous fat ratio (VSR). Independent t-tests, logistic regression models, and ROC curve analysis were utilized to assess the association of those metrics in predicting 90-day mortality.\nA total of 122 patients (58\u2009\u00b1\u200911.8, 68% male) were included. Patients who died within 90 days of TIPS had significantly higher MELD (18.9 vs. 11.9, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and lower SMA (123 vs. 144.5, p\u2009=\u20090.002), SMI (43.7 vs. 50.5, p\u2009=\u20090.03), SFA (122.4 vs. 190.8, p\u2009=\u20090.009), SFI (44.2 vs. 66.7, p\u2009=\u20090.04), VFA (105.5 vs. 171.2, p\u2009=\u20090.003), and VFI (35.7 vs. 57.5, p\u2009=\u20090.02) compared to those who survived past 90 days. There were no significant associations between 90-day mortality and BMI (26 vs. 27.1, p\u2009=\u20090.63), SMD (30.1 vs. 31.7, p\u2009=\u20090.44), or VSR (0.97 vs. 1.03, p\u2009=\u20090.66). Multivariable logistic regression showed that SMA (OR\u2009=\u20090.97, p\u2009<\u20090.01), SMI (OR\u2009=\u20090.94, p\u2009=\u20090.03), SFA (OR\u2009=\u20090.99, p\u2009=\u20090.01), and VFA (OR\u2009=\u20090.99, p\u2009=\u20090.02) remained significant predictors of 90-day mortality when adjusted for MELD score. ROC curve analysis demonstrated that including SMA, SFA, and VFA improves the predictive power of MELD score in predicting 90-day mortality after TIPS (AUC, 0.84; 95% CI: 0.77, 0.91; p\u2009=\u20090.02).\nCT body composition is positively predictive of 90-day mortality after TIPS and improves the predictive performance of MELD score.\nLevel 3, Retrospective multi-center cohort study.", 
    "abstract": "Accurate prediction of microvascular invasion (MVI) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is crucial for guiding treatment. This study evaluates and compares the performance of clinicoradiologic, traditional radiomics, deep-learning radiomics, feature fusion, and decision fusion models based on multi-region MR habitat imaging using six machine-learning classifiers.\nWe retrospectively included 300 HCC patients. The intratumoral and peritumoral regions were segmented into distinct habitats, from which radiomics and deep-learning features were extracted using arterial phase MR images. To reduce feature dimensionality, we applied intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) analysis, Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) filtering, and recursive feature elimination (RFE). Based on the selected optimal features, prediction models were constructed using decision tree (DT), K-nearest neighbors (KNN), logistic regression (LR), random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), and XGBoost (XGB) classifiers. Additionally, fusion models were developed utilizing both feature fusion and decision fusion strategies. The performance of these models was validated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC AUC), calibration curves, and decision curve analysis.\nThe decision fusion model (VOI-Peri10-1) using LR and integrating clinicoradiologic, radiomics, and deep-learning features achieved the highest AUC of 0.808 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.807-0.912) in the test cohort, with good calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, P\u00a0>\u00a00.050) and clinical net benefit.\nThe LR-based decision fusion model integrating clinicoradiologic, radiomics, and deep-learning features shows promise for preoperative prediction of MVI in HCC, aiding in patient outcome predictions and personalized treatment planning.", 
    "abstract": "Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most prevalent cancer within the female reproductive system in developed countries. Despite its high incidence, there is currently no established laboratory screening test for EC, making early detection challenging. This study introduces an innovative, minimally invasive, and cost-effective method utilizing three-dimensional fluorescence analysis combined with machine learning algorithms to enhance early EC detection. Intrinsic fluorescence of blood serum samples was measured using a luminescence spectrophotometer, which captured fluorescence spectra as synchronous excitation spectra and visualized them through wavelength contour matrices. The spectral data were processed using machine learning algorithms, including Random Forest (RF), Logistic Regression (LR), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD), along with exploratory techniques such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA). Fluorescence ratios R300/330 and R360/490, indicative of altered tryptophan metabolism and redox state changes, were identified as fluorescent spectral markers and represent key metabolic biomarkers. These ratios demonstrated high diagnostic efficacy with AUC values of 0.88 and 0.91, respectively. Among the ML algorithms, LR and RF exhibited high sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV), showing significant promise for clinical application. After optimization, LR achieved a sensitivity of 0.94, specificity of 0.89, and an impressive AUC value of 0.94. The application of this novel approach in laboratory diagnostics has the potential to significantly enhance early detection and improve prognosis for EC patients.", 
    "abstract": "This study utilized available oral acute toxicity data in Rat and Mouse for polychlorinated persistent organic pollutants (PC-POPs) to construct data fusion-driven machine learning (ML) global models. Based on atom-centered fragments (ACFs), the collected high-throughput data overcame the applicability limitations, enabling accurate toxicity prediction for a wide range of PC-POPs series compounds using only single models. The data variances in the Rat training and test sets were 1.52 and 1.34, respectively, while for the Mouse, the values were 1.48 and 1.36, respectively. Genetic algorithm (GA) was used to build multiple linear regression (MLR) models and pre-screen descriptors, addressing the \"black-box\" problem prevalent in ML and enhancing model interpretability. The best ML models for Rat and Mouse achieved approximately 90\u00a0% prediction reliability for over 100,000 true untested compounds. Ultimately, a warning list of highly toxic compounds for eight categories of polychlorinated atom-centered fragments (PCACFs) was generated based on the prediction results. The analysis of descriptors revealed that dioxin analogs generally exhibited higher toxicity, because the heteroatoms and ring systems increased structural complexity and formed larger conjugated systems, contributing to greater oral acute toxicity. The present study provides valuable insights for guiding the subsequent in vivo tests, environmental risk assessment and the improvement of global governance system of pollutants.", 
    "abstract": "Traditional methods for medical device post-market surveillance often fail to accurately account for operator learning effects, leading to biased assessments of device safety. These methods struggle with non-linearity, complex learning curves, and time-varying covariates, such as physician experience. To address these limitations, we sought to develop a machine learning (ML) framework to detect and adjust for operator learning effects.\nA gradient-boosted decision tree ML method was used to analyze synthetic datasets that replicate the complexity of clinical scenarios involving high-risk medical devices. We designed this process to detect learning effects using a risk-adjusted cumulative sum method, quantify the excess adverse event rate attributable to operator inexperience, and adjust for these alongside patient factors in evaluating device safety signals. To maintain integrity, we employed blinding between data generation and analysis teams. Synthetic data used underlying distributions and patient feature correlations based on clinical data from the Department of Veterans Affairs between 2005 and 2012. We generated 2494 synthetic datasets with widely varying characteristics including number of patient features, operators and institutions, and the operator learning form. Each dataset contained a hypothetical study device, Device B, and a reference device, Device A. We evaluated accuracy in identifying learning effects and identifying and estimating the strength of the device safety signal. Our approach also evaluated different clinically relevant thresholds for safety signal detection.\nOur framework accurately identified the presence or absence of learning effects in 93.6% of datasets and correctly determined device safety signals in 93.4% of cases. The estimated device odds ratios' 95% confidence intervals were accurately aligned with the specified ratios in 94.7% of datasets. In contrast, a comparative model excluding operator learning effects significantly underperformed in detecting device signals and in accuracy. Notably, our framework achieved 100% specificity for clinically relevant safety signal thresholds, although sensitivity varied with the threshold applied.\nA machine learning framework, tailored for the complexities of post-market device evaluation, may provide superior performance compared to standard parametric techniques when operator learning is present.\nDemonstrating the capacity of ML to overcome complex evaluative challenges, our framework addresses the limitations of traditional statistical methods in current post-market surveillance processes. By offering a reliable means to detect and adjust for learning effects, it may significantly improve medical device safety evaluation.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the interobserver agreement and diagnostic accuracy of ovarian-adnexal reporting and data system magnetic resonance imaging (O-RADS MRI) and applicability to machine learning.\nDynamic contrast-enhanced pelvic MRI examinations 471 lesions were retrospectively analyzed and assessed by three radiologists according to O-RADS MRI criteria. Radiomic data were extracted from T2, and post-contrast fat-suppressed T1-weighted images. Using these data, an artificial neural network (ANN), support vector machine, random forest, and naive Bayes models were constructed.\nAmong all readers, the lowest agreement was found for the O-RADS 4 group (kappa: 0.669 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.634-0.733)), followed by the O-RADS 5 group (kappa: 0.709 (95% CI 0.678-0.754)). O-RADS 4 predicted a malignancy with an area under the curve (AUC) value of 74.3% (95% CI 0.701-0.782), and O-RADS 5 with an AUC of 95.5% (95% CI 0.932-0.972),(p\u2009<\u20090.001). Among the machine learning models, ANN achieved the highest success, distinguishing O-RADS groups with an AUC of 0.948, a precision of 0.861, and a recall of 0.824.\nThe interobserver agreement and diagnostic sensitivity of the O-RADS MRI in assigning O-RADS 4-5 were not perfect, indicating a need for structural improvement. Integrating artificial intelligence into MRI protocols may enhance their performance.\nMachine learning can achieve high accuracy in the correct classification of O-RADS MRI. Malignancy prediction rates were 74% for O-RADS 4 and 95% for O-RADS 5.", 
    "abstract": "Intrapleural enzyme therapy (IET) with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and deoxyribonuclease (DNase) has been shown to reduce the need for surgical intervention for complicated parapneumonic effusion/empyema (CPPE/empyema). Failure of IET may lead to delayed care, and increased length of stay.\nThe goal of this study was to identify risk factors for failure of IET.\nWe performed a multicenter, retrospective study of patients who received IET for the treatment of CPPE/empyema. Clinical and radiological variables at the time of diagnosis were included. We compared four different machine learning classifiers (L1-penalized logistic regression, support vector machine (SVM), XGBoost and LightGBM) by multiple bootstrap-validated metrics, including F-beta to demonstrate model performances.\n466 participants who received IET for pleural infection were included from five institutions across the United States. Resolution of CPPE/empyema with IET was achieved in 78% (n=365). SVM performed superior with median F-beta of 56%, followed by L1-penalized logistic regression, LGBM and XGBoost. Clinical and radiological variables were graded based on their ranked variable importance. The top two significant predictors of IET failure using SVM were the presence of an abscess/necrotizing pneumonia (17%) and pleural thickening (13%). Similarly, LightGBM identified abscess/necrotizing pneumonia (35%) and pleural thickening (26%) and XGBoost indicated pleural thickening (36%) and abscess/necrotizing pneumonia (17%) as the most significant predictors of treatment failure. Predictors identified by L1-penalized logistic regression model were pleural thickening (18%) and pleural fluid LDH (9%).\nThe presence of abscess/necrotizing pneumonia and pleural thickening consistently ranked among the strongest predictors of IET failure in all machine learning models. The difference in rankings between models may be a consequence of the different algorithms used by each model. These results indicate that the presence of abscess/necrotizing pneumonia, and pleural thickening may predict IET failure. These results should be confirmed in larger studies.", 
    "abstract": "The primary objective of this study was to identify clinical and socioeconomic predictors of hospital and ED use among children with medical complexity within 1 and 5 years of an initial discharge between 2010 and 2013. A secondary objective was to estimate marginal associations between important predictors and resource use.\nThis retrospective, population-cohort study of children with medical complexity in Alberta linked administrative health data with Canadian census data and used tree-based, gradient-boosted regression models to identify clinical and socioeconomic predictors of resource use. Separate analyses of cumulative numbers of hospital days and ED visits modeled the probability of any resource use and, when present, the amount of resource use. We used relative importance in each analysis to identify important predictors.\nThe analytic sample included 11\u2009105 children with medical complexity. The best short- and long-term predictors of having a hospital stay and number of hospital days were initial length of stay and clinical classification. Initial length of stay, residence rurality, and other socioeconomic factors were top predictors of short-term ED use. The top predictors of ED use in the long term were almost exclusively socioeconomic, with rurality a top predictor of number of ED visits. Estimates of marginal associations between initial length of stay and resource use showed that average number of hospital days increases as initial length of stay increases up to approximately 90 days. Children with medical complexity living in rural areas had more ED visits on average than those living in urban or metropolitan areas.\nClinical factors are generally better predictors of hospital use whereas socioeconomic factors are more predictive of ED use among children with medical complexity in Alberta. The results confirm existing literature on the importance of socioeconomic factors with respect to health care use by children with medical complexity.", 
    "abstract": "Breast cancer (BC) is a heterogeneous disease with various biological and clinical subtypes. HER2 status (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) is a crucial biomarker, associated with aggressive tumor behavior and poor prognosis. Advanced algorithmic models can aid in predicting cancer growth and metastasis, serving as valuable clinical tools for classification and treatment. Effective treatment strategies in oncology rely on accurate decision-making and early identification of factors associated with positive outcomes. Breast cancer (BC) presents challenges in understanding its contributing factors and establishing precise diagnostic methods. Our research introduces a novel method utilizing machine learning (ML) techniques to explore the relationship between various clinical and molecular variables focusing on predicting the status of the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), a key aggressiveness biomarker in BC. This objective aligns with leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) to support decision-making and address diagnostic considerations during treatment.\nFour ML models, namely logistic regression, random forest, LightGBM, and CatBoost, were implemented and evaluated using Python. The dataset was compiled by extracting medical records of BC patients, covering the period from 2018 to 2020. The model's predictive performance was evaluated using accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score as performance metrics.\nThe models achieved varying accuracies between 86.36 and 95.45%. The logistic regression model achieved an accuracy of 90.90% while the random forest and LightGBM models achieved an accuracy of 86.36%. The CatBoost model outperformed others with a greater accuracy of 95.45%, indicating its superior predictive capabilities for HER2 status. The ML models demonstrated potential in predicting HER2 status, enabling early detection and facilitating personalized treatment strategies.\nOur findings emphasize the significance of AI and ML techniques in improving BC outcomes and guiding decision-making. Further research is required to explore the broader applications of ML in predicting comprehensive BC outcomes in diverse healthcare settings and among heterogeneous populations.", 
    "abstract": "Due to the heterogeneity in the effectiveness of immunotherapy for lung cancer, identifying predictors is crucial.\nThis study aimed to develop a machine learning model to identify predictors of overall survival in lung cancer patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs).\nA retrospective analysis was performed on data from 1314 lung cancer patients at the Chongqing University Cancer Hospital from September 2018 to September 2022. We used the random survival forest (RSF) model to identify survival-influencing factors, using backward elimination for variable selection. A Cox proportional hazards (CPH) model was constructed using the most significant predictors. We assessed model performance and generalizability using time-dependent receiver operating characteristics (ROC) and predictive error curves.\nThe RSF model demonstrated better predictive accuracy than the CPH (IBS 0.17 vs. 0.17; C-index 0.91 vs. 0.68), with better discrimination and prediction performance. The influential variables identified included D-dimer, Karnofsky performance status, albumin, surgery, TNM stage, platelet count, and age. The RSF model, which incorporated these variables, achieved area under the curve (AUC) scores of 0.95, 0.94, and 0.98 for 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival predictions, respectively, in the training set. The validation set showed AUCs of 0.94, 0.90, and 0.95, respectively, exceeding the performance of the CPH model.\nThe study successfully developed a machine learning model that accurately predicted the survival benefits of ICI therapy in lung cancer patients, supporting clinical decision-making in lung cancer treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Drought, as a natural and intricate climatic phenomenon, poses challenges with implications for both natural ecosystems and socioeconomic conditions. Evaluating the characteristics of drought is a significant endeavor aimed at mitigating its impact on society and individuals. This research paper explores the integration of the Standardized Precipitation Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) and machine learning techniques for an assessment of drought characteristics in the Middle Ganga Plain, a crucial agro-climatic region in India. The study focuses on evaluating the frequency, intensity, magnitude, and recurrence interval of drought events. Various drought models, including Random Forest (RF), Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), and an ensemble model combining ANN and RF, were employed to analyze and predict drought patterns at different temporal scales (3-month, 6-month, and 12-month). The performance of these models was rigorously validated using key metrics such as precision, accuracy, proportion incorrectly classified, over-all area under the curve (AUC), mean absolute error (MAE), and root mean square error (RMSE). Furthermore, the research extends its application to delineating drought vulnerability zones by establishing demarcations for high and very high drought vulnerability areas for each model and temporal scale. Results indicate that the south-western part of the middle Ganga plain falls under the highly drought-vulnerable zone, which averagely covers 40% of the study region. The core and buffer regions of drought vulnerability have also been identified. The south-western part of the study area is identified as the core region of drought. Ground verification of the drought-vulnerable area has been done by using soil moisture meter. Validation metrics show that the ensemble model of ANN and RF exhibits the highest accuracy across all temporal scales. This research's findings can be applied to improve drought preparedness and water resource management in the Middle Ganga Plain. By identifying high-risk drought zones and utilizing accurate prediction models, policymakers and farmers can implement targeted mitigation strategies. This approach could enhance agricultural resilience, protect livelihoods, and optimize water allocation in this vital agro-climatic region.", 
