    "abstract": "Understanding the neurobiology of opioid use disorder (OUD) using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) may help inform treatment strategies to improve patient outcomes. Recent literature suggests temporal characteristics of rs-fMRI blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals may offer complementary information to functional connectivity analysis. However, existing studies of OUD analyze BOLD signals using measures computed across all time points. This study, for the first time in the literature, employs data-driven machine learning (ML) modeling of rs-fMRI BOLD features representing multiple time points to identify region(s) of interest that differentiate OUD subjects from healthy controls (HC). Following the triple network model, we obtain rs-fMRI BOLD features from the default mode network (DMN), salience network (SN), and executive control network (ECN) for 31 OUD and 45 HC subjects. Then, we use the Boruta ML algorithm to identify statistically significant BOLD features that differentiate OUD from HC, identifying the DMN as the most salient functional network for OUD. Furthermore, we conduct brain activity mapping, showing heightened neural activity within the DMN for OUD. We perform 5-fold cross-validation classification (OUD vs. HC) experiments to study the discriminative power of functional network features with and without fusing demographic features. The DMN shows the most discriminative power, achieving mean AUC and F1 scores of 80.91% and 73.97%, respectively, when fusing BOLD and demographic features. Follow-up Boruta analysis using BOLD features extracted from the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, and left and right temporoparietal junctions reveals significant features for all four functional hubs within the DMN.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Different types of physical training can lead to changes in brain activity and function, and these changes can vary depending on the type of training. However, it remains unclear whether there are commonalities in how different types of training affect brain activity and function. The purpose of this study is to compare the brain activity states of professional athletes with those of ordinary university students and to explore the relationship between training and differences in brain activity states.\nThis study primarily utilizes resting-state MRI and the degree centrality metric to investigate spontaneous brain activity in 86 high-level athletes with extensive training and 74 age- and gender-matched nonathletes. Additionally, a correlation analysis between brain activity in relevant regions and years of training was conducted.\nThe analysis revealed that, compared to nonathletes, high-level athletes exhibited reduced activity in the Calcarine (a visual area) and Middle Temporal Gyrus. Furthermore, changes in the activity of the Calcarine and Middle Temporal Gyrus were significantly correlated with the number of years of professional training.\nThe study results indicate that long-term physical training is associated with changes in brain activity in athletes, providing insights into the neural mechanisms underlying behavioral performance in professional athletes.", 
    "abstract": "Bipolar disorder is a multifaceted psychiatric condition characterized by fluctuating activity levels and dysfunctional mood states, oscillating between manic and depressive episodes. These mood disturbances are accompanied by persistent functional and cognitive impairments, even during periods of euthymia. Prior studies have underscored the critical role of amygdala activity in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. This research aims to utilize resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (rs-fMRI) to explore the functional modifications in the six sub-regions that compose the amygdala of individuals diagnosed with bipolar disorder.\nThe study encompassed 80 participants, bifurcated into two groups: 40 individuals with bipolar disorder and 40 healthy controls. Each group comprised an equal gender distribution of 20 females and 20 males, ranging in age from 21 to 50 years. Using rs-fMRI, we examined the functional connectivity within six amygdala sub-regions across eight regional functional networks.\nComparative analysis between the control group and the bipolar patients revealed that all six amygdala sub-regions demonstrated connectivity with the eight functional brain networks. Notable similarities and disparities were observed in the connectivity patterns between the bipolar group and controls, particularly within the amygdala's sub-regions and other brain networks. The most significant functional connectivity alterations were found with the salience network and the default mode network. Additionally, alterations in the functional connectivity between the amygdala, sensory-motor, and visual networks were noted in bipolar patients.\nThe study's findings highlight the distinct patterns of resting-state functional connectivity of the amygdala and various brain networks in differentiating bipolar patients from healthy controls. These variations suggest the existence of multiple pathophysiological mechanisms contributing to emotional dysregulation in bipolar disorder.", 
    "abstract": "Older adults often experience more fragmented and less restful sleep than younger individuals. However, the mechanisms in the brain that underlie these phenomena have been rarely studied. The aim of this study was to identify the differences in global brain network properties between older adults with good and poor sleep quality and to explore the relationship between these network properties and symptoms of insomnia.\nWe performed a graph-theoretic analysis of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data from two groups of older adults: 59 with good sleep quality and 59 with poor sleep quality. Functional connectivity among 264 brain regions of interest was estimated, and undirected graphs were constructed. Network topological properties were compared using one-way repeated-measures analysis of variance. Pearson's correlation analysis assessed the relationship between the mean scores of the global network properties across network sparsity and insomnia symptoms, as measured using the global Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index score.\nOlder adults with poor sleep quality displayed increased small-world-ness, global efficiency and modularity in the functional brain network during rest. Conversely, they exhibited decreased local efficiency, characteristic path length and clustering coefficient. In the total population, we found associations between insomnia symptoms and global network characteristics, except for betweenness centrality and modularity.\nIn older adults with poor sleep quality, global network measures revealed a functional brain architecture that tended towards integration rather than segregation. Further research is needed to better understand what these findings mean about the effects of aging on poor sleep quality.", 
    "abstract": "Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience have focused on using resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) data from fMRI scans to more accurately predict human traits and behaviors. Traditional approaches generally analyze RSFC by correlating averaged time-series data across regions of interest (ROIs) or networks, which may overlook important spatial signal patterns. To address this limitation, we introduced a novel linear regression technique that estimates RSFC by predicting spatial brain activity patterns in a target ROI from those in a seed ROI. We applied both traditional and our novel RSFC estimation methods to a large-scale dataset from the Human Connectome Project and the Brain Genomics Superstruct Project, analyzing resting-state fMRI data to predict sex, age, personality traits, and psychological task performance. To enhance prediction accuracy, we developed an ensemble learner that combines these qualitatively different methods using a weighted average approach. Our findings revealed that hierarchical clustering of RSFC patterns using our novel method displays distinct whole-brain grouping patterns compared to the traditional approach. Importantly, the ensemble model, integrating these diverse weak learners, outperformed the traditional RSFC method in predicting human traits and behaviors. Notably, the predictions from the traditional and novel methods showed relatively low similarity, indicating that our novel approach captures unique and previously undetected information about human traits and behaviors through fine-grained local spatial patterns of neural activation. These results highlight the potential of combining traditional and innovative RSFC analysis techniques to enrich our understanding of the neural basis of human traits and behaviors.", 
    "abstract": "Research on the neural mechanisms underlying brain asymmetry in patients with migraine patients using fMRI is insufficient. This study proposed using lateralized algorithms for functional connectivity and brain network topology and investigated changes in their lateralization in patients with migraine. In study 1, laterality indices of functional connectivity (LFunctionCorr) and brain network topological properties (LBetweennessCentrality, LDegree, and LStrength) were defined. Differences between migraineurs and normal subjects were compared at whole-brain, half-brain, and region levels. In study 2, laterality indices were used to classify migraine and were validated using independent samples and the segment method for repeatability. In study 3, abnormal brain regions related to migraine were extracted based on the classification results and differences analysis. Study 1 found no significant differences related to in for migraine at the whole-brain level; however, significant differences were identified at the half-brain level for the hemispheric lateralization of the LFunctionCorr, while 11 significantly different brain regions were also identified at the brain region level. Furthermore, the classification accuracy in study 2 was 0.9366. With repeated validation, the accuracy reached 0.8561. Furthermore, after extending the samples according to the segmentation strategy, the classification accuracies were improved to 0.9408 and 0.8585. Study 3 identified 10 crucial brain regions with asymmetrical specificity based on laterality indices distributed across the visual network, the frontoparietal control network, the default mode network, the salience/ventral attention network and the limbic system. The results revealed novel insights and avenues for research into the mechanisms of migraine asymmetry and showed that the laterality indices could be used as a potential diagnostic imaging marker for migraine.", 
    "abstract": "(1) Background: This study investigates the resting-state brain characteristics of skeleton athletes compared to healthy age-matched non-athletes, using resting-state fMRI to investigate long-term skeleton-training-related changes in the brain. (2) Methods: Eleven skeleton athletes and twenty-three matched novices with no prior experience with skeleton were recruited. Amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and seed-based functional connectivity analyses were explored to investigate resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data, aiming to elucidate differences in resting-state brain function between the two groups. (3) Results: Compared to the control group, skeleton athletes exhibited significantly higher ALFF in the left fusiform, left inferior temporal gyrus, right inferior frontal gyrus, left middle temporal gyrus, left and right insula, left Rolandic operculum, left inferior frontal gyrus, and left superior temporal gyrus. Skeleton athletes exhibit stronger functional connectivity in brain regions associated with cognitive and motor control (superior frontal gyrus, insula), as well as those related to reward learning (putamen), visual processing (precuneus), spatial cognition (inferior parietal), and emotional processing (amygdala), during resting-state brain function. (4) Conclusions: The study contributes to understanding how motor training history shapes skeleton athletes' brains, which have distinct neural characteristics compared to the control population, indicating potential adaptations in brain function related to their specialized training and expertise in the sport.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) has become ubiquitous in neuroimaging to study disorders, including alcohol use disorder (AUD), given its potential to serve as a biomarker of psychiatric symptoms. The number of techniques, sample heterogeneity, and findings demand the assessment of results to identify potential biomarkers for the development of treatment. This systematic review aimed to synthesize the alcohol rsfMRI literature by summarizing the results by analysis approach and groups to examine these findings in the context of the neurobiology of addiction model. Three databases were systematically searched, resulting in the inclusion of 17 studies with a total of 784 participants (387 were people with AUD, 38 engaged in binge drinking, and 359 were controls). Seed-based functional connectivity studies were the most prominent. Compared to controls, people who binge drink and people with AUD showed greater connectivity of the Middle Frontal Gyrus-a region associated with the preoccupation/anticipation stage of the theory. Regions of the prefrontal and limbic cortex were most consistently reported in studies. The different types of analyses, sample size, and variability in the sample may have contributed to differences reported across studies. This review synthesizes and examines the results of different studies using the neurobiology of addiction theory, which may inform future studies on potential regions of interest, recruitment approaches, and analysis methods. Standardizing the methods for such a heterogeneous population could lead to more rapid development of neurobiologically-informed treatments for AUD.", 
    "abstract": "Inadequate sleep significantly impacts an individual's health by compromising inhibitory control and self-regulation abilities. This study employed resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess the functional connectivity between the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the whole brain in 16 healthy adult males after 36\u00a0h of total sleep deprivation. Additionally, this study investigated alterations in individuals' inhibitory control functions and physiological mechanisms following sleep deprivation. The results showed a significant increase in functional connectivity between the ACC, the left angular gyrus, and the right hippocampus following 36\u00a0h of continuous sleep deprivation. Conversely, functional connectivity was notably decreased between the ACC and the right insular cortex, right paracingulate gyrus, and bilateral putamen. Furthermore, changes in ACC functional connectivity were significantly correlated with alterations in behavioral performance in the go/no-go task after sleep deprivation. This study contributes to understanding brain network mechanisms in the anterior cingulate gyrus after sleep deprivation. It clarifies the relationship between functional connectivity changes in the anterior cingulate gyrus and inhibitory control post-sleep deprivation.", 
    "abstract": "Primary nocturnal enuresis (PNE) is a disease characterized by involuntary urination during sleep after the age of five, causing inconvenience and psychological burden to children and their families. The onset of PNE is related to many factors, and in recent years, delayed central nervous system maturation has been considered one of the important causes of PNE. Previous studies have demonstrated functional changes in multiple brain regions in children with PNE. However, these studies either focused on changes in local brain regions or the functional connection (FC) between specific brain regions, and there is currently a lack of research on the whole brain FC in children with PNE. This study analyzed functional connectivity density (FCD) across the entire brain based on voxels and comprehensively evaluated the global FCD (gFCD), local FCD (lFCD), and long-range FCD (lrFCD). Decreased gFCD and lFCD were found in the left temporal lobe and the right posterior cerebellum in the children with PNE compared with the HC. The FCD values in these regions were negatively correlated with the scores of hyperactivity/impulsivity in the children with PNE. This study may help to reveal the neural mechanisms underlying the onset of PNE in children from a new perspective.", 
    "abstract": "The functional connectivity (FC) has emerged as a valuable tool for comprehending the cerebral operational mechanism. Understanding the FC changes in patients with chronic ankle instability (CAI) helps reveal the underlying central nervous system mechanisms of the disease and provides clues for developing personalized treatment plans.\nTo explore differences between low- and high-order FC in patients with CAI and healthy controls, as well as the correlation among the feature connections and clinical data.\nIn our study, we recruited 40 patients with CAI and 42 healthy individuals who had not experienced ankle injuries. All participants underwent clinical assessments of ankle joints, collected the number of ankle sprains within the past 6 months, and performed resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scans. Pearson correlation and matrix variate normal distribution (MVND) were used to construct low-order and high-order FC networks, respectively. Feature selections between groups were performed by two-sample t-tests, and a multi-kernel support vector machine (MK-SVM) was subsequently applied to combine the multiple connection patterns for the classification. Using leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) to assess classification performance and identify the consensus connections contributing most to classification.\nFC was reduced in certain brain regions of CAI patients. More consensus connections were recognized in low-order FC network than in high-order FC network. The highest classification accuracy of 91.30% was achieved by combining three connection patterns. The most discriminating functional connections were primarily centered on the default mode network and spanned the visual network, sensorimotor network, ventral attention network, and central executive network. In addition, FC strength in the left cingulate and paracingulate gyrus (DCG.L) and right superior temporal gyrus (STG.R) was negatively correlated with the number of ankle sprains in the past 6 months in all FC networks (p\u00a0<\u00a00.05).\nAbnormalities in connectivity in patients with CAI were observed in both low- and high-order FC networks. The adaptive changes in the brain related to CAI may extend beyond the sensorimotor networks, primarily involving higher-level default mode networks associated with attention. Moreover, the FC strength between DCG.L and STG.R may predict the risk of ankle re-sprains and help clinicians develop personalized treatment plans.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to investigate alterations in the resting-state brain functional network characteristics of lifelong premature ejaculation (PE) patients using surface-based degree centrality (DC), and to analyze the correlation between these alterations and clinical symptoms in PE patients. The study included individuals with lifelong PE (patient group, n\u00a0=\u00a036) and a control group matched by age and education level (control group, n\u00a0=\u00a022). Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans were performed on all participants. Surface-based degree centrality analysis was conducted and the differences between the two groups were compared using t-tests. Further, the DC values of brain regions showing significant differences were correlated with clinical symptoms. Compared to the control group, the patient group exhibited significantly reduced degree centrality (DC) values in the left precuneus and significantly increased DC values in the right supplementary motor area (SMA). Furthermore, intravaginal ejaculatory latency time (IELT) and Chinese Index of Premature Ejaculation (CIPE) values were positively correlated with left precuneus DC values and negatively correlated with right SMA DC values. Patients with primary lifelong ejaculation demonstrate abnormalities in key brain network nodes and their connections with relevant brain regions, which are strongly associate with clinical symptoms. These findings enhance our understanding of the neuronal pathological changes in PE patients.", 
    "abstract": "Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is characterized by deficits in attention, hyperactivity, and/or impulsivity. Resting-state functional connectivity analysis has emerged as a promising approach for ADHD classification using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), although with limited accuracy. Recent studies have highlighted dynamic changes in functional connectivity patterns among ADHD children. In this study, we introduce Skip-Vote-Net, a novel deep learning-based network designed for classifying ADHD from typically developing children (TDC) by leveraging dynamic connectivity analysis on rs-fMRI data collected from 222 participants included in the NYU dataset within the ADHD-200 database. Initially, for each subject, functional connectivity matrices were constructed from overlapping segments using Pearson's correlation between mean time series of 116 regions of interest defined by the Automated Anatomical Labeling (AAL) 116 atlas. Skip-Vote-Net was then developed, employing a majority voting mechanism to classify ADHD/TDC children, as well as distinguishing between the two main subtypes: the inattentive subtype (ADHD", 
    "abstract": "Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is increasingly recognized as a risk factor for alterations in brain function. However, detecting early-stage symptoms and structural changes remains challenging, potentially leading to delayed treatment. In our study, we aimed to investigate spontaneous brain activity changes in CKD patients using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Additionally, we explored the correlation between common biomarkers reflecting CKD severity and brain activity.\nWe recruited a cohort of 22 non-dialysis-dependent CKD patients and 22 controls for resting-state fMRI scans. Amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFFs) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) were calculated to evaluate brain activity. Regression analysis was conducted to explore the correlations between biomarkers reflecting the severity of CKD and brain activity.\nCKD patients exhibited reduced z-scored ALFF (zALFF) and mean ALFF (mALFF) in the bilateral putamen, right caudate nucleus, left anterior cingulate, and right precuneus. Changes in bilateral putamen were also found in smCohe-ReHo and szCohe-ReHo analyses. Urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR), urine protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR), and serum albumin levels were associated with attenuated putamen activity.\nNon-dialysis-dependent CKD patients had changes in zALFF, mALFF, smCohe-ReHo, and szCohe-ReHo values in specific brain regions, especially bilateral putamen. UACR, UPCR, and serum albumin levels are associated with putamen activity attenuation in rs-fMRI.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Olfactory dysfunction stands as one of the most prevalent non-motor symptoms in the initial stage of Parkinson's disease (PD). Nevertheless, the intricate mechanisms underlying olfactory deficits in Parkinson's disease still remain elusive.\nThis study collected rs-fMRI data from 30 PD patients [15 with severe hyposmia (PD-SH) and 15 with no/mild hyposmia (PD-N/MH)] and 15 healthy controls (HC). To investigate functional segregation, the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) were utilized. Functional connectivity (FC) analysis was performed to explore the functional integration across diverse brain regions. Additionally, the graph theory-based network analysis was employed to assess functional networks in PD patients. Furthermore, Pearson correlation analysis was conducted to delve deeper into the relationship between the severity of olfactory dysfunction and various functional metrics.\nWe discovered pronounced variations in ALFF, ReHo, FC, and topological brain network attributes across the three groups, with several of these disparities exhibiting a correlation with olfactory scores.\nUsing fMRI, our study analyzed brain function in PD-SH, PD-N/MH, and HC groups, revealing impaired segregation and integration in PD-SH and PD-N/MH. We hypothesize that changes in temporal, frontal, occipital, and cerebellar activities, along with aberrant cerebellum-insula connectivity and node degree and betweenness disparities, may be linked to olfactory dysfunction in PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) reveals diverse neural activity patterns in cervical spondylosis (CS) patients. However, the reported results are inconsistent. Therefore, our objective was to conduct a meta-analysis to synthesize the findings from existing rs-fMRI studies and identify consistent patterns of neural brain activity alterations in patients with CS.\nA systematic search was conducted across PubMed, Web of Knowledge, Embase, Google Scholar, and CNKI for rs-fMRI studies that compared CS patients with healthy controls (HCs), up to January 28, 2024. Significant cluster coordinates were extracted for comprehensive analysis.\nWe included 16 studies involving 554 CS patients and 488 HCs. CS patients demonstrated decreased brain function in the right superior temporal gyrus and left postcentral gyrus, and increased function in the left superior frontal gyrus. Jackknife sensitivity analysis validated the robustness of these findings, and Egger's test confirmed the absence of significant publication bias (\nThis meta-analysis confirms consistent alterations in specific brain regions in CS patients, highlighting the potential of rs-fMRI to refine diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.\nhttps://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, identifier CRD42024496263.", 
    "abstract": "Previous research suggests that episodic memory relies on functional neural networks,which are present even in the absence of an explicit task. The regions that integrate.these networks and the developmental changes in intrinsic functional connectivity.remain elusive. In the present study, we outlined an intrinsic episodic memory network.(iEMN) based on a systematic selection of functional connectivity studies, and.inspected network differences in resting-state fMRI between adolescents (13-17 years.old) and adults (23-27 years old) from the publicly available NKI-Rockland Sample.Through a review of brain regions commonly associated with episodic memory.networks, we identified a potential iEMN composed by 14 bilateral ROIs, distributed.across temporal, frontal and parietal lobes. Within this network, we found an increase.in resting-state connectivity from adolescents to adults between the right temporal pole.and two regions in the right lateral prefrontal cortex. We argue that the coordination of.these brain regions, connecting areas of semantic processing and areas of controlled.retrieval, arises as an important feature towards the full maturation of the episodic.memory system. The findings add to evidence suggesting that adolescence is a key.period in memory development and highlights the role of intrinsic functional.connectivity in such development.", 
    "abstract": "This study challenges the traditional focus on zero-lag statistics in resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) research. Instead, it advocates for considering time-lag interactions to unveil the directionality and asymmetries of the brain hierarchy. Effective connectivity (EC), the state matrix in dynamical causal modeling (DCM), is a commonly used metric for studying dynamical properties and causal interactions within a linear state-space system description. Here, we focused on how time-lag statistics are incorporated within the framework of DCM resulting in an asymmetric EC matrix. Our approach involves decomposing the EC matrix, revealing a steady-state differential cross-covariance matrix that is responsible for modeling information flow and introducing time-irreversibility. Specifically, the system's dynamics, influenced by the off-diagonal part of the differential covariance, exhibit a curl steady-state flow component that breaks detailed balance and diverges the dynamics from equilibrium. Our empirical findings indicate that the EC matrix's outgoing strengths correlate with the flow described by the differential cross covariance, while incoming strengths are primarily driven by zero-lag covariance, emphasizing conditional independence over directionality.\nModeling large-scale brain dynamics offers insight into the main principles of brain self-organization. In particular, the identification of traces of nonequilibrium steady-state dynamics also at the mascroscale level has been recently linked to the presence of intrinsic brain networks. Quantifying these aspects is generally limited by numerical difficulties. However, for resting-state BOLD data, a linear stochastic state-space model has demonstrated efficacy, simplifying analysis. Specifically, the asymmetric structure of effective connectivity, that is, the state interaction matrix, directly reflects nonequilibrium steady-state dynamics and time-irreversibility. By disentangling this asymmetry, we quantified departure from equilibrium and discerned primary directions of information propagation, identifying brain regions as sources or sinks.", 
    "abstract": "Representing data using time-resolved networks is valuable for analyzing functional data of the human brain. One commonly used method for constructing time-resolved networks from data is sliding window Pearson correlation (SWPC). One major limitation of SWPC is that it applies a high-pass filter to the activity time series. Therefore, if we select a short window (desirable to estimate rapid changes in connectivity), we will remove important low-frequency information. Here, we propose an approach based on single sideband modulation (SSB) in communication theory. This allows us to select shorter windows to capture rapid changes in the time-resolved functional network connectivity (trFNC). We use simulation and real resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data to demonstrate the superior performance of SSB+SWPC compared to SWPC. We also compare the recurring trFNC patterns between individuals with the first episode of psychosis (FEP) and typical controls (TC) and show that FEPs stay more in states that show weaker connectivity across the whole brain. A result exclusive to SSB+SWPC is that TCs stay more in a state with negative connectivity between subcortical and cortical regions. Based on all the results, we argue that SSB+SWPC is more sensitive for capturing temporal variation in trFNC.", 
    "abstract": "This study systematically reviews the available evidence on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) related to neurological symptoms and cognitive declines in COVID-19 patients. We followed PRISMA guidelines and looked up the PubMed, and Scopus databases for articles search on COVID-19 patients with neurological impairments, and functional connectivity alteration using rs-fMRI technique. Articles published between January 1, 2020, and May 31, 2024, are included in this study. The Quality Assessment Tool for Observational Prospective and Cross-Sectional Studies from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) was used to assess the quality of papers. A total of 15 articles met the inclusion criteria. The result reveals that the most prevalent neurological impairment associated with COVID-19 was cognitive decline, encompassing issues in attention, memory, processing speed, executive functions, language, and visuospatial ability. The brain connectivity results reveal that two brain areas were functionally altered; the prefrontal cortex and parahippocampus. The functional connectivity mainly increased in the frontal, temporal, and anterior piriform cortex, and reduced in the cerebellum, superior orbitofrontal cortex, and middle temporal gyrus, which also correlated with cognitive decline. The findings of neurological symptoms indicate one study reported a Disorder of Consciousness (DoC), and four studies reported COVID-19 patients with olfactory dysfunction. The present study concludes that COVID-19 can alter brain functional connectivity and offers significant insight into how COVID-19 affects the neuronal foundation of cognitive decline and other neurological impairments.", 
    "abstract": "The effectiveness of Tuina therapy has been confirmed in treating pain of patients with cervical spondylosis (CS), however, its therapeutic mechanism is still unclear. This study aimed to observe the changes of regional brain activity following Tuina therapy in patients with painful CS based on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data.\nA total of 27 patients with CS and 27 healthy subjects (HCs) were enrolled in this study. All patients received Tuina therapy every 2\u2009days for 2\u2009weeks. The clinical manifestations of patients were evaluated by the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Neck Disability Index (NDI) before and after treatment. In addition, rs-fMRI data were collected and preprocessed in all patients before and after treatment, as well as HCs. HCs underwent a 1-time rs-fMRI scan, whereas CS patients underwent 2-times of rs-fMRI scan. The measure of regional homogeneity (ReHo) was calculated and compared between groups. Finally, relationships between altered brain regions and clinical characteristics were evaluated by \nAfter Tuina therapy, VAS and NDI scores of patients decreased. Before treatment, CS patients showed higher ReHo values in the left middle temporal gyrus, left thalamus, right anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus, left inferior parietal gyrus and lower ReHo values in the right gyrus rectus when compared with HCs. After treatment, CS patients exhibited higher ReHo values in the left inferior temporal gyrus, right anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus, left inferior parietal gyrus and lower ReHo values in the right rectus gyrus when compared with HCs. CS patients after treatment demonstrated higher ReHo values in the left inferior occipital gyrus when compared with those before treatment. Positive correlations were found between ReHo values of the right rectus gyrus and VAS, NDI scores in CS patients before treatment. Differences of VAS scores between before and after treatment were negatively correlated with ReHo values of the left inferior temporal gyrus in CS patients after treatment.\nThis study demonstrated the presence of asynchronous activity in certain brain regions in CS patients, which might be associated with pain and cervical spine dysfunction. Tuina therapy might modulate asynchronous activity of abnormal brain regions, which might contribute to the effectiveness of Tuina therapy in alleviating pain and cervical spine dysfunction in CS patients.", 
    "abstract": "The central autonomic network (CAN) serves as a regulatory hub with top-down regulatory control and integration of bottom-up physiological feedback via the autonomic nervous system. Heart rate variability (HRV)-the time variance of the heart's beat-to-beat intervals-is an index of the CAN's affective and behavioral regulatory capacity. Although neural functional connectivities that are associated with HRV and CAN have been well studied, no published report to date has studied effective (directional) connectivities (EC) that are associated with HRV and CAN. Better understanding of neural EC in the brain has the potential to improve our understanding of how the CAN sub-regions regulate HRV. To begin to address this knowledge gap, we employed resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and dynamic causal modeling (DCM) with parametric empirical Bayes analyses in 34 healthy adults (19 females; mean age= 32.68 years [SD= 14.09], age range 18-68 years) to examine the bottom-up and top-down neural circuits associated with HRV. Throughout the whole brain, we identified 12 regions associated with HRV. DCM analyses revealed that the ECs from the right amygdala to the anterior cingulate cortex and to the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex had a negative linear relationship with HRV and a positive linear relationship with heart rate. These findings suggest that ECs from the amygdala to the prefrontal cortex may represent a neural circuit associated with regulation of cardiodynamics.", 
    "abstract": "Dynamic functional connectivity (DFC) extracted from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been widely used for neuropsychiatric disorder classifications. However, serious information redundancy within DFC matrices can significantly undermine the performance of classification models based on them. Moreover, traditional deep models cannot adapt well to connectivity-like data, and insufficient training samples further hinder their effective training. In this study, we proposed a novel region-state masked autoencoder (RS-MAE) for proficient representation learning based on DFC matrices and ultimately neuropsychiatric disorder classifications based on fMRI. Three strategies were taken to address the aforementioned limitations. First, masked autoencoder (MAE) was introduced to reduce redundancy within DFC matrices and learn effective representations of human brain function simultaneously. Second, region-state (RS) patch embedding was proposed to replace space-time patch embedding in video MAE to adapt to DFC matrices, in which only topological locality, rather than spatial locality, exists. Third, random state concatenation (RSC) was introduced as a DFC matrix augmentation approach, to alleviate the problem of training sample insufficiency. Neuropsychiatric disorder classifications were attained by fine-tuning the pretrained encoder included in RS-MAE. The performance of the proposed RS-MAE was evaluated on four publicly available datasets, achieving accuracies of 76.32%, 77.25%, 88.87%, and 76.53% for the attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and schizophrenia (SCZ) classification tasks, respectively. These results demonstrate the efficacy of the RS-MAE as a proficient deep learning model for neuropsychiatric disorder classifications.", 
    "abstract": "Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has been widely used in studying default mode network (DMN) changes in postoperative delirium (POD). Reproducibility and interpretability of the analyzing results remain insufficiently studied.\nDelirium-like behavior was induced by tibial fixation surgery under isoflurane anesthesia. Firstly, we evaluated delirium-like behavior and inflammatory responses in hippocampus and systemic level. Then the expressions of microRNA (miRNA) and target gene were sequenced and validated. Afterwards the functional connectivity (FC) in DMN was analyzed. Finally, results were correlated with DMN changes.\nPOD-like behavior caused significant changes of miR-34b-5p, miR-328-5p, and miR-3505 in miRNA level and Nos1, Tubb3, and Gys1 in the gene level. The FC in left and right hippocampus (L-Hip and R-Hip) and right auditory cortex (R-AC) was found significantly changed. Significant correlations were found in FC\nOur study demonstrates that POD-like behavior induced significant miRNA and gene expression changes were associated with hippocampus related long-term FC disruption in DMN. The results increased reproducibility and interpretability for standardized rs-fMRI data analysis, as well as providing potential targets for postoperative delirium treatment.", 
    "abstract": "It is well known that there are significant differences in the prevalence of chronic pain between males and females. Human and animal imaging studies have shown that chronic pain profoundly alters the structure and function of brain regions. However, there is limited research on the sex-specific mechanisms underlying the brain plasticity and adaptive changes associated with chronic pain. In this article, we conducted a multimodal study to evaluate how nerve injury-induced chronic pain affects the brain.\nMale and female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with spared nerve injury (SNI) model underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) (male sham group: \nUsing SNI model, which promotes long-lasting mechanical allodynia, we found that neuropathic pain deeply modified the intrinsic organization of the brain functional network in male and female rats (main effect of operation: \nOur study indicates sex differences in structural and functional alterations in the hippocampal system in rats under chronic pain conditions. The results suggest that the hippocampus system plays an important role in the different mechanisms of chronic pain in different sexes. These findings provide reliable insights to explore the complex mechanisms underlying sex differences in chronic pain.", 
    "abstract": "To explore brain function alterations in chronic insomnia (CI). 65 CI patients and 48 healthy controls were included to analyze abnormal alterations in brain spontaneous activity using static regional homogeneity (sReHo) and dynamic regional homogeneity (dReHo) methods. CI patients focused on decreased sReHo in bilateral lingual gyrus, bilateral middle occipital gyrus, bilateral inferior occipital gyrus and right superior occipital gyrus; decreased dReHo in bilateral superior occipital gyrus, bilateral cortical area around the talus fissure, and right middle occipital gyrus. CI patients exhibit abnormal activity in multiple brain regions, which can reflect the sleep quality index.\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s41105-024-00541-0.", 
    "abstract": "Estimating the direction of functional connectivity (FC) can help further elucidate complex brain function. However, the estimation of directed FC at the voxel level in fMRI data, and evaluating its performance, has yet to be done. We therefore developed a novel directed seed-based connectivity analysis (SCA) method based on normalized pairwise Granger causality that provides greater detail and accuracy over ROI-based methods. We evaluated its performance against 145 cortical retrograde tracer injections in male and female marmosets that were used as ground truth cellular connectivity on a voxel-by-voxel basis. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was calculated for each injection, and we achieved area under the ROC curve of 0.95 for undirected and 0.942 for directed SCA in the case of high cell count threshold. This indicates that SCA can reliably estimate the strong cellular connections between voxels in fMRI data. We then used our directed SCA method to analyze the human default mode network (DMN) and found that dlPFC (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and temporal lobe were separated from other DMN regions, forming part of the language-network that works together with the core DMN regions. We also found that the cerebellum (Crus I-II) was strongly targeted by the posterior parietal cortices and dlPFC, but reciprocal connections were not observed. Thus, the cerebellum may not be a part of, but instead a target of, the DMN and language-network. Summarily, our novel directed SCA method, visualized with a new functional flat mapping technique, opens a new paradigm for whole-brain functional analysis.", 
    "abstract": "The neuroimaging basis of intelligence remains elusive; however, there is a growing body of research employing connectome-based predictive modeling to estimate individual intelligence scores, aiming to identify the optimal set of neuroimaging features for accurately predicting an individual's cognitive abilities. Compared to adults, the disparities in cognitive performance among children and adolescents are more likely to captivate individuals' interest and attention. Limited research has been dedicated to exploring neuroimaging markers of intelligence specifically in the pediatric population. In this study, we utilized resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and intelligence quotient (IQ) scores of 170 healthy children and adolescents obtained from a public database to identify brain functional connectivity markers associated with individual intellectual behavior. Initially, we extracted and summarized relevant resting-state features from whole-brain or functional network connectivity that were most pertinent to IQ scores. Subsequently, these features were employed to establish prediction models for both performance and verbal IQ scores. Within a 10-fold cross-validation framework, our findings revealed that prediction models based on whole-brain functional connectivity effectively predicted performance IQ scores( ", 
    "abstract": "Emotional disorders inflict an enormous burden on society. Research on brain abnormalities implicated in emotional disorders has witnessed great progress over the past decades. Using cross-sectional and longitudinal designs, resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and its analytic approaches have been applied to characterize the local properties of patients with emotional disorders. Additionally, brain activity alterations of emotional disorders have shown frequency-specific. Despite the gains in understanding the roles of brain abnormalities in emotional disorders, the limitation of the small sample size needs to be highlighted. Lastly, we proposed that evidence from the positive psychology research stream presents it as a viable discipline, whose suggestions could be developed in future emotional disorders research. Such interdisciplinary research may produce novel treatments and intervention options. This article is categorized under: Psychology > Brain Function and Dysfunction.", 
    "abstract": "Migraine, a neurological condition perpetually under investigation, remains shrouded in mystery regarding its underlying causes. While a potential link to Right-to-Left Shunt (RLS) has been postulated, the exact nature of this association remains elusive, necessitating further exploration.\nThe amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), fractional ALFF (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo) and functional connectivity (FC) were employed to investigate functional segregation and functional integration across distinct brain regions. Graph theory-based network analysis was utilized to assess functional networks in migraine patients with RLS. Pearson correlation analysis further explored the relationship between RLS severity and various functional metrics.\nCompared with migraine patients without RLS, patients with RLS exhibited a significant increase in the ALFF within left middle occipital and superior occipital gyrus; In migraine patients with RLS, significantly reduced brain functional connectivity was found, including the connectivity between default mode network and visual network, ventral attention network, as well as the intra-functional connectivity of somatomotor network and its connection with the limbic network, and also the connectivity between the left rolandic operculum and the right middle cingulate gyrus. Notably, a significantly enhanced functional connectivity between the frontoparietal network and the ventral attention network was found in migraine with RLS; Patients with RLS displayed higher values of the normalized clustering coefficient and greater betweenness centrality in specific regions, including the left precuneus, right insula, and right inferior temporal gyrus. Additionally, these patients displayed a diminished nodal degree in the occipital lobe and reduced nodal efficiency within the fusiform gyrus; Further, the study found positive correlations between ALFF in the temporal lobes, thalamus, left middle occipital, and superior occipital gyrus and RLS severity. Conversely, negative correlations emerged between ALFF in the right inferior frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, and insula and RLS grading. Finally, the study identified a positive correlation between angular gyrus betweenness centrality and RLS severity.\nRLS-associated brain functional alterations in migraine consisted of local brain regions, connectivity, and networks involved in pain conduction and regulation did exist in migraine with RLS.", 
    "abstract": "Schizophrenia patients frequently present with structural and functional abnormalities of the ventral striatum (VS).\nwe examined basal activation state and functional connectivity (FC) in four subregions of the bilateral ventral striatum: left inferior ventral striatum (VSi_L), left superior ventral striatum(VSs_L), right inferior ventral striatum(VSi_R), and right superior ventral striatum(VSs_R). Resting-state functional magnetic resonance images were obtained from 62 schizophrenia patients (SCH), 57 bipolar disorder (BD) patients, and 26 healthy controls (HCs).\nThe schizophrenia group exhibited greater fALFF in bilateral VS subregions compared to BD and HC groups as well as greater FC between the bilateral VSi and multiple brain regions, including the thalamus, putamen, posterior cingulate gyrus (PCC), frontal cortex and caudate. Moreover, the fALFF values of the bilateral ventral striatum were positively correlated with the severity of positive symptoms. We also found the functional connectivity between the bilateral inferior ventral striatum and some brain regions aforementioned were positively correlated with the severity of negative symptoms.\nThese findings confirm a crucial contribution of ventral striatum dysfunction, especially of the bilateral VSi in schizophrenia. Functionally dissociated regions of the ventral striatum are differentially disturbed in schizophrenia.", 
    "abstract": "Identifying connections between various aspects of physical performance, motor skills, and cognitive abilities with the brain connectivity networks is essential for determining important brain regions associated with soccer performance. This study aimed to carry out the relationship between soccer-specific parameters and resting-state functional connectivity in soccer players.\nTwenty-five soccer players (Vo2max; 50.68\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03.76\u00a0ml/min/kg) were participated voluntarily. The study encompassed a comprehensive assessment, including measures of physical performance, skill performance, and executive function (design fluency). Each participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) also allowing for the acquisition of data. The Linear regression were conducted between sport-specific parameters and functional connectivity values.\nOur findings revealed a significant positive correlation between agility and linear sprinting with the dorsal attention network (DAN). Conversely, the aerobic fitness parameter demonstrated exhibited a significant negative correlation with the DMN. Skill performance (speed dribbling, passing, shooting) displayed a significant positive correlation with both sensorimotor network (SMN), and DAN. Moreover, design fluency test displayed a significant positive correlation with the DMN. Notably, IPSL and IPSR nodes within the DAN consistently demonstrated the highest degree of centrality across various sports parameters.\nThis study provides valuable insights into the intricate relationship among physical performance, skill proficiency, and executive function, as they relate to the functional connectivity of specific neural networks in soccer players. The outcomes establish a foundational understanding for future exploration and potential applications in sports science, and cognitive neuroscience in order to improve soccer performance.", 
    "abstract": "Transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) could improve cognition in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the effects of tACS on brain activity remain unclear.\nThe purpose is to investigate the change in regional neuronal activity after tACS in AD patients employing resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI).\nA total of 46 patients with mild AD were enrolled. Each patient received 30 one-hour sessions of real or sham tACS for three weeks (clinical trial: NCT03920826). The fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) and the regional homogeneity (ReHo) measured by rs-fMRI were calculated to evaluate the regional brain activity.\nCompared to baseline, AD patients in the real group exhibited increased fALFF in the left middle frontal gyrus-orbital part and right inferior frontal gyrus-orbital part, as well as increased ReHo in the left precentral gyrus and right middle frontal gyrus at the end of intervention. At the 3-month follow-up, fALFF increased in the left superior parietal lobule and right inferior temporal gyrus, as well as ReHo, in the left middle frontal gyrus and right superior medial frontal gyrus. A higher fALFF in the right lingual gyrus and ReHo in the right parahippocampal gyrus were observed in the response group than in the nonresponse group.\nThe findings demonstrated the beneficial effects of tACS on the neuronal activity of the prefrontal cortex and even more extensive regions and provided a neuroimaging biomarker of treatment response in AD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Insomnia is a common comorbidity symptom in major depressive disorder (MDD) patients. Abnormal brain activities have been observed in both MDD and insomnia patients, however, the central pathological mechanisms underlying the co-occurrence of insomnia in MDD patients are still unclear. This study aimed to explore the differences of spontaneous brain activity between MDD patients with and without insomnia, as well as patients with different level of insomnia.\nA total of 88 first-episode drug-na\u00efve MDD patients including 44 with insomnia (22 with high insomnia and 22 with low insomnia) and 44 without insomnia, as well as 44 healthy controls (HC), were enrolled in this study. The level of depression and insomnia were evaluated by HAMD-17, adjusted HAMD-17 and its sleep disturbance subscale in all subjects. Resting-state functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging data were acquired from all participants and then were preprocessed by the software of DPASF. Regional homogeneity (ReHo) values of brain regions were calculated by the software of REST and were compared. Finally, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were conducted to determine the values of abnormal brain regions for identifying MDD patients with insomnia and evaluating the severity of insomnia.\nAnalysis of variance showed that there were significant differences in ReHo values in the left middle frontal gyrus, left pallidum, right superior frontal gyrus, right medial superior frontal gyrus and right rectus gyrus among three groups. Compared with HC, MDD patients with insomnia showed increased ReHo values in the medial superior frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, triangular inferior frontal gyrus, calcarine fissure and right medial superior frontal gyrus, medial orbital superior frontal gyrus, as well as decreased ReHo values in the left middle occipital gyrus, pallidum and right superior temporal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, middle cingulate gyrus, hippocampus, putamen. MDD patients without insomnia demonstrated increased ReHo values in the left middle frontal gyrus, orbital middle frontal gyrus, anterior cingulate gyrus and right triangular inferior frontal gyrus, as well as decreased ReHo values in the left rectus gyrus, postcentral gyrus and right rectus gyrus, fusiform gyrus, pallidum. In addition, MDD patients with insomnia had decreased ReHo values in the left insula when compared to those without insomnia. Moreover, MDD patients with high insomnia exhibited increased ReHo values in the right middle temporal gyrus, and decreased ReHo values in the left orbital superior frontal gyrus, lingual gyrus, right inferior parietal gyrus and postcentral gyrus compared to those with low insomnia. ROC analysis demonstrated that impaired brain region might be helpful for identifying MDD patients with insomnia and evaluating the severity of insomnia.\nThese findings suggested that MDD patients with insomnia had wider abnormalities of brain activities in the prefrontal-limbic circuits including increased activities in the prefrontal cortex, which might be the compensatory mechanism underlying insomnia in MDD. In addition, decreased activity of left insula might be associated with the occurrence of insomnia in MDD patients and decreased activities of the frontal-parietal network might cause more serious insomnia related to MDD.", 
    "abstract": "To assess the value of glutamate chemical exchange saturation transfer (GluCEST) after whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) as an imaging marker of radiation-induced brain injury (RBI) and to preliminarily show the feasibility of multiparametric MRI-guided organ at risk (OAR) avoidance.\nRats were divided into two groups: the control (CTRL) group (n\u202f=\u20099) and the RBI group (n\u202f=\u20099). The rats in the RBI group were irradiated with an X\u2011ray radiator and then subjected to a\u00a0water maze experiment 4\u00a0weeks later. In combination with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), we evaluated the value of GluCEST applied to glutamate changes for RBI and investigated the effect of such changes on glutamatergic neuronal function.\nThe average GluCEST values were markedly lower in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Positive correlations were observed between GluCEST values and regional homogeneity (ReHo) values in both the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. HPLC showed a\u00a0positive correlation with GluCEST values in the hippocampus. GluCEST values were positively correlated with spatial memory.\nGluCEST MRI provides a\u00a0visual assessment of glutamate changes in RBI rats for monitoring OAR cognitive toxicity reactions and may be used as a\u00a0biomarker of OAR avoidance as well as metabolism to facilitate monitoring and intervention in radiation damage that occurs after radiotherapy.", 
    "abstract": "Characterizing the neuropathological features of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder-related optic neuritis (NMOSD-ON) is crucial for understanding its mechanisms. Given the important role of dynamic features in the brain's functional architecture, we aim to investigate the dynamic features of spontaneous brain activity and their concordance using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) in NMOSD-ON.\nFourteen NMOSD-ON patients and 21 healthy controls (HCs) underwent rs-fMRI and ophthalmological examinations. Five dynamic indices depicting different aspects of functional characteristics were calculated using a sliding window method based on rs-fMRI data. Kendall's coefficient was utilized to measure concordance among these indices at each time point. The differences of dynamic features between two groups were evaluated using two-sample t-tests, with correlations explored between altered dynamics and clinical parameters.\nCompared to HCs, NMOSD-ON patients exhibited significant decreases in dynamic regional homogeneity (dReHo) and dynamic degree centrality (dDC) in visual regions, including bilateral cuneus, lingual gyrus, calcarine sulcus, and occipital gyrus. Conversely, increases were observed in left insula, left thalamus, and bilateral caudate. The concordance of NMOSD-ON patients was significantly lower than HCs. The dReHo of right cuneus negatively correlated with mean deviation of visual field (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.591, p\u00a0=\u00a00.026) and the dReHo of left cuneus negatively correlated with disease duration (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.588, p\u00a0=\u00a00.030).\nThe evidence suggests that regional dynamic functional alterations involving vision, emotional processing, and cognitive control may provide a new understanding of brain changes in the progression of NMOSD-ON.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to explore differences in the static and dynamic amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (sALFF and dALFF) in resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) data between patients with Benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (SeLECTS) and healthy controls (HCs).\nWe recruited 45 patient with SeLECTS and 55 HCs, employing rs-fMRI to assess brain activity. The analysis utilized a two-sample t-test for primary comparisons, supplemented by stratification and matching based on clinical and demographic characteristics to ensure comparability between groups. Post hoc analyses assessed the relationships between sALFF/dALFF alterations and clinical demographics, incorporating statistical adjustments for potential confounders and performing sensitivity analysis to test the robustness of our findings.\nOur analysis identified significant differences in sALFF and dALFF between patient with SeLECTS and HCs. Notably, increases in sALFF and dALFF were observed in the right middle temporal gyrus and left superior temporal gyrus among patient with SeLECTS, while a decrease in dALFF was seen in the right cerebellum crus 1. Additionally, a positive correlation was found between abnormal dALFF variability in specific brain regions and various clinical and demographic factors of patient with SeLECTS, with age being one such influential factor.\nThis investigation provides insights into the assessment of local brain activity in SeLECTS through both static and dynamic approaches. It highlights the significance of non-invasive neuroimaging techniques in understanding the complexities of epilepsy syndromes like SeLECTS and emphasizes the need to consider a range of clinical and demographic factors in neuroimaging studies of neurological disorders.", 
    "abstract": "There is growing interest in understanding the dynamic functional connectivity (DFC) between distributed brain regions. However, it remains challenging to reliably estimate the temporal dynamics from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) due to the limitations of current methods.\nWe propose a new model called HDP-HSMM-BPCA for sparse DFC analysis of high-dimensional rs-fMRI data, which is a temporal extension of probabilistic principal component analysis using Bayesian nonparametric hidden semi-Markov model (HSMM). Specifically, we utilize a hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) prior to remove the parametric assumption of the HMM framework, overcoming the limitations of the standard HMM. An attractive superiority is its ability to automatically infer the state-specific latent space dimensionality within the Bayesian formulation.\nThe experiment results of synthetic data show that our model outperforms the competitive models with relatively higher estimation accuracy. In addition, the proposed framework is applied to real rs-fMRI data to explore sparse DFC patterns. The findings indicate that there is a time-varying underlying structure and sparse DFC patterns in high-dimensional rs-fMRI data.\nCompared with the existing DFC approaches based on HMM, our method overcomes the limitations of standard HMM. The observation model of HDP-HSMM-BPCA can discover the underlying temporal structure of rs-fMRI data. Furthermore, the relevant sparse DFC construction algorithm provides a scheme for estimating sparse DFC.\nWe describe a new computational framework for sparse DFC analysis to discover the underlying temporal structure of rs-fMRI data, which will facilitate the study of brain functional connectivity.", 
    "abstract": "Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), as a chronic mental disorder, causes changes in mood, thoughts, and behavior. The pathophysiology of the disorder and its treatment are still unknown. One of the most notable changes observed in patients with MDD through fMRI is abnormal functional brain connectivity.\nPreprocessed data from 60 MDD patients and 60 normal controls (NCs) were selected, which has been performed using the DPARSF toolbox. The whole-brain functional networks and topologies were extracted using graph theory-based methods. A two-sample, two-tailed t-test was used to compare the topological features of functional brain networks between the MDD and NCs groups using the DPABI-Net/Statistical Analysis toolbox.\nThe obtained results showed a decrease in both global and local efficiency in MDD patients compared to NCs, and specifically, MDD patients showed significantly higher path length values. Acceptable p-values were obtained with a small sample size and less computational volume compared to the other studies on large datasets. At the node level, MDD patients showed decreased and relatively decreased node degrees in the sensorimotor network (SMN) and the dorsal attention network (DAN), respectively, as well as decreased node efficiency in the SMN, default mode network (DMN), and DAN. Also, MDD patients showed slightly decreased node efficiency in the visual networks (VN) and the ventral attention network (VAN), which were reported after FDR correction with Q < 0.05.\nAll participants were Chinese.\nCollectively, increased path length, decreased global and local efficiency, and also decreased nodal degree and efficiency in the SMN, DAN, DAN, VN, and VAN were found in patients compared to NCs.", 
    "abstract": "Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is a neurological condition characterized by a noticeable decline in cognitive abilities that falls between normal aging and dementia. Along with some biomarkers like GAP-43, A\u03b2, tau, and P-tau, brain activity and connectivity are ascribed to MCI; however, the link between brain connectivity changes and such biomarkers in MCI is still being investigated. This study explores the relationship between biomarkers like GAP-43, A\u03b2, tau, and P-tau, and brain connectivity. We enrolled 25 Participants with normal cognitive function and 23 patients with MCI. Levels of GAP-43, A\u03b21-42, t-tau, and p-tau181p in the CSF were measured, and functional connectivity measures including ROI-to-voxel (RV) correlations and the DMN RV-ratio were extracted from the resting-state fMRI data. P-values below 0.05 were considered significant. The results showed that in CN individuals, higher connectivity within the both anterior default mode network (aDMN) and posterior DMN (pDMN) was associated with higher levels of the biomarker GAP-43. In contrast, MCI individuals showed significant negative correlations between DMN connectivity and levels of tau and P-tau. Notably, no significant correlations were found between A\u03b2 levels and connectivity measures in either group. These findings suggest that elevated levels of GAP-43 indicate increased functional connectivity in aDMN and pDMN. Conversely, elevated levels of tau and p-tau can disrupt connectivity through various mechanisms. Thus, the accumulation of tau and p-tau can lead to impaired neuronal connectivity, contributing to cognitive decline.", 
    "abstract": "Shingles can cause long-term pain and negative emotions, along with changes in brain function. In this study, Granger Causality Analysis (GCA) was used to compare herpes zoster (HZ) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) differences in effective connections within the \"pain matrix\" between patients and healthy controls to further understand patterns of interaction between brain regions and explore the relationship between changes in effective connections and clinical features.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans were performed on 55 HZ; 55 PHN; and 50 age-, sex- matched healthy controls (HCs). The brain regions associated with the pain matrix are used as the seeds of effective connectivity. GCA was used to analyze effective connections in brain regions that differed significantly between groups. Then the correlation between GCA values and clinical indicators was studied.\nCompared with HC, GCA values between the thalamus and the amygdala, between the thalamus and the precentral gyrus, from the thalamus to the postcentral gyrus, and from the parahippocampal gyrus to the amygdala, anterior cingulate gyrus were significantly reduced in HZ patients. Compared with HC, GCA values between the insular and the postcentral gyrus, from the insular to the inferior parietal lobe, and from the postcentral gyrus to the amygdala were significantly reduced in PHN patients. Compared with HZ, GCA values between the inferior parietal lobe and the parahippocampal gyrus, between the inferior parietal lobe and the anterior cingulate gyrus, and from the anterior cingulate gyrus to the amygdala were significantly increased in PHN patients. The visual analogue scale (VAS) score of PHN patients was positively correlated with the GCA value from the central posterior lobe to the insula.\nPHN and HZ patients showed a broad reduction in effective connections, mainly reflected in abnormal pain pathway regulation, pain perception, negative emotion and memory production, providing new perspectives to understand the neuroimaging mechanisms of shingles.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to explore the abnormal changes in short- and long-range functional connectivity density (FCD) in patients with herpes zoster (HZ) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN).\nTwenty HZ patients, 22 PHN patients, and 19 well-matched healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans. We used FCD mapping, a data-driven graph theory method, to investigate local and global functional connectivity patterns. Both short- and long-range FCD were calculated and compared among the PHN, HZ, and HC groups. Then, the abnormal regions were used to calculate seed-based functional connectivity. Finally, correlation analyses were performed between the altered FCD values and clinical datas.\nCompared with HCs, HZ patients showed significantly increased long-range FCD of the bilateral cerebellum, thalamus, parahippocampal gyrus, superior temporal gyrus and lingual gyrus. HZ patients also displayed significantly decreased short-range FCD of the bilateral posterior cingulate gyrus, median cingulate/paracingulate gyri, and left precuneus. Compared with HCs, PHN patients displayed significantly decreased long-range FCD of the bilateral superior frontal gyrus and decreased short-range FCD in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyrus, median cingulate/paracingulate gyri, and precuneus. However, there was no significant difference in either long-range or short-range FCD between the PHN and HZ patients. Long-range FCD deficit areas and the right insula showed altered functional connectivity in PHN patients. Furthermore, pain duration in patients with PHN was correlated with abnormal long-range FCD.\nHerpes zoster pain widely affects intra- and inter-regional functional connectivity, leading to disrupted short-range FCD and increased long-range FCD during different stages of the disease. Long-term chronic pain in PHN patients may impair the pain emotion regulation pathway. These findings could improve our understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of HZ and PHN and offer neuroimaging markers for HZ and PHN.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to explore the specific regions of abnormal cortical communication efficiency in patients with mild subcortical stroke and to investigate the relationship between these communication efficiency abnormalities and multidimensional cognition.\nThe research involved 35 patients with mild strokes affecting the basal ganglia and 29 healthy controls (HC). Comprehensive neuroimaging and neuropsychological assessments were conducted. Stroke patients were categorized into post-stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI) (MoCA \u2264 22) and non-cognitively impaired stroke patients (NPSCI) (MoCA \u2265 23) based on their cognitive performance. Additionally, 22 patients were reassessed three months later.\nPSCI patients, compared to HC and NPSCI groups, had significantly higher communication efficiency in specific brain regions. A notable finding was the significant correlation between increased communication efficiency in the medioventral occipital cortex and multidimensional cognitive decline. However, this increased communication efficiency in PSCI patients lessened during the three-month follow-up period.\nthe heightened communication efficiency in the medio-ventral occipital cortex may represent a compensatory mechanism for cognitive impairment in PSCI patients, which undergoes adjustment three months after stroke.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders in childhood. Numerous resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) studies in ADHD have been performed using traditional low-frequency bands (0.01-0.08 Hz). However, the neural activity patterns of frequency subbands in ADHD still require further investigation. The purpose of this study is to explore the frequency-dependent characteristics and neural activity patterns of ADHD subtypes. We selected the ADHD combined type (ADHD-C, ", 
    "abstract": "Potential changes in patterns of dynamic functional network connections at the cerebellar-cerebral level in pontine infarction (PI) patients remain unclear. The study aimed to investigate the abnormal patterns of dynamic functional connectivity (dFC) between the cerebellar subregions within networks and regions of the cerebral cortex in patients with PI. Forty-six chronic left pontine infarction (LPI), 32 chronic right pontine infarction (RPI), and 50 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited to undergo resting-state fMRI scans. Cerebellar-cerebral dFC was characterized using the sliding window method and seed-based connectivity analyses. Correlations between altered dFC values and clinical variables (The Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test and Flanker task) in PI patients and healthy controls were investigated. Compared with HCs, the PI groups showed significantly aberrant cerebellar-cerebral dFC between cerebellar subregions within networks and supratentorial cerebral cortex, including executive, default-mode, and motor networks. Furthermore, Correlation analysis showed a decoupling between abnormal dFC and cognitive functions in PI patients. These findings indicate that PI patients are accompanied by damage to cerebellar subregions within networks and cerebellar-cerebral pathways, which may provide a potential target for treatment or an indication of therapeutic efficacy.", 
    "abstract": "Depression and insomnia frequently co-occur, but the neural mechanisms between patients with varying degrees of these conditions are not fully understood. The specific topological features and connectivity patterns of this co-morbidity have not been extensively studied. This study aimed to investigate the topological characteristics of topological characteristics and functional connectivity of brain networks in depressed patients with insomnia.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data from 32 depressed patients with a high level of insomnia (D-HI), 35 depressed patients with a low level of insomnia (D-LI), and 81 healthy controls (HC) were used to investigate alterations in brain topological organization functional networks. Nodal and global properties were analyzed using graph-theoretic techniques, and network-based statistical analysis was employed to identify changes in brain network functional connectivity.\nCompared to the HC group, both the D-HI and D-LI groups showed an increase in the global efficiency (Eglob) values, local efficiency (Eloc) was decreased in the D-HI group, and Lambda and shortest path length (Lp) values were decreased in the D-LI group. At the nodal level, the right parietal nodal clustering coefficient (NCp) values were reduced in D-HI and D-LI groups compared to those in HC. The functional connectivity of brain networks in patients with D-HI mainly involves default mode network (DMN)-cingulo-opercular network (CON), DMN-visual network (VN), DMN-sensorimotor network (SMN), and DMN-cerebellar network (CN), while that in patients with D-LI mainly involves SMN-CON, SMN-SMN, SMN-VN, and SMN-CN. The values of the connection between the midinsula and postoccipital gyrus was negatively correlated with scores for early awakening in D-HI.\nThese findings may contribute to our understanding of the underlying neuropsychological mechanisms in depressed patients with insomnia.", 
    "abstract": "Olfactory dysfunction is an early sign of such neurodegenerative diseases as Parkinson's (PD) and Alzheimer's (AD), and is often present in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), a precursor of AD. Understanding neuro-temporal relationships, i.e., functional connectivity, between olfactory eloquent structures in such disorders, could shed light on their basic pathophysiology. To this end, we employed region-based analyses using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) obtained from cognitively normal (CN), MCI, and PD patients with cognitive impairment (PD-CogImp). Using machine learning (linear and ensemble learning), we determined whether the identified functional patterns could classify abnormal function from normal function. Olfaction, as measured by objective testing, was found to be most strongly associated with diagnostic status, emphasizing the fundamental association of this primary sensory system with these conditions. Consistently lower functional connectivity was observed in the PD-CogImp cohort compared to the CN cohort among all identified brain regions. Differences were also found between PD-CogImp and MCI at the level of the orbitofrontal and cingulate cortices. MCI and CN subjects had different functional connectivity between the posterior orbitofrontal cortex and thalamus. Regardless of study group, males showed significantly higher connectivity than females in connections involving the orbitofrontal cortex. The logistic regression model trained using the top discriminatory features revealed that caudate was the most involved olfaction-related brain structure (accuracy\u00a0=\u00a00.88, Area under the Receiver operator characteristic curve of 0.90). In aggregate, our study demonstrates that resting functional connectivity among olfactory eloquent structures has potential value in better understanding the pathophysiology of several neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "While patients affected by mild cognitive impairment (MCI) exhibit characteristic voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) alterations, the ability of such VMHC abnormalities to predict the diagnosis of MCI in these patients remains uncertain. As such, this study was performed to evaluate the potential role of VMHC abnormalities in the diagnosis of MCI.\nMCI patients and healthy controls (HCs) were enrolled and subjected to resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and neuropsychological testing. VMHC and support vector machine (SVM) techniques were then used to examine the collected imaging data.\nTotally, 53 MCI patients and 68 healthy controls were recruited. Compared to HCs, MCI patients presented with an increase in postcentral gyrus VMHC. SVM classification demonstrated the ability of postcentral gyrus VMHC values to classify HCs and MCI patients with accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity values of 63.64\u00a0%, 71.69\u00a0%, and 89.71\u00a0%, respectively.\nVMHC abnormalities in the postcentral gyrus may be mechanistically involved in the pathophysiological progression of MCI patients, and these abnormal VMHC patterns may also offer utility as a neuroimaging biomarker for MCI patient diagnosis.", 
    "abstract": "The quality of resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) under anesthesia is variable and there are no guidelines on optimal image acquisition or anesthesia protocol. We aim to identify the factors that may lead to compromised clinical rs-fMRI under anesthesia.\nIn this cross-sectional study, we analyzed clinical rs-fMRI data acquired under anesthesia from 2009-2023 at Massachusetts General Hospital. Independent component analysis driven resting state networks (RSN) of each patient were evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively and grouped as robust or weak. Overall networks were evaluated using the qualitative method, and motor and language networks were evaluated using the quantitative method. RSN robustness was analyzed in 4 outcome categories: overall, combined Motor-Language, individual motor, and language networks. Predictor variables included rs-fMRI acquisition parameters, anesthesia medications, underlying brain structural abnormalities, age, and sex. Logistic regression was used to examine the effect of the study variables on RSN robustness.\nSixty-nine patients were identified. With qualitative assessment, 40 had robust and 29 had weak overall RSN. Quantitatively, 45 patients had robust, while 24 had weak Motor-Language networks. Among all the predictor variables, only sevoflurane significantly contributed to the outcomes, with sevoflurane administration reducing the odds of having robust RSN in overall (Odds Radio (OR)= 0.2, 95% Confidence Interval (CI) = [0.05;0.79], p = .02), Motor-Language (OR = 0.18, 95% CI = [0.04;0.80], p = .02) and individual motor (OR= 0.1, 95% CI = [0.02;0.64], p= .02) categories. Individual language network robustness was not associated with the tested predictor variables.\nSevoflurane anesthesia may compromise the visibility of fMRI resting state networks, particularly impacting motor networks. This finding suggests that the type of anesthesia is a critical factor in rs-fMRI quality. We did not observe the association of the MR acquisition technique or underlying structural abnormality with the RSN robustness.\nBOLD = Blood Oxygen Level-Dependent; ICA = Independent Component Analysis; Rs-fMRI = Resting-State Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging; RSN = Resting-State Networks; SNR = Signal-to-Noise Ratio.", 
    "abstract": "For decades, fMRI data have been used to search for biomarkers for patients with schizophrenia. Still, firm conclusions are yet to be made, which is often attributed to the high internal heterogeneity of the disorder. A promising way to disentangle the heterogeneity is to search for subgroups of patients with more homogeneous biological profiles. We applied an unsupervised multiple co-clustering (MCC) method to identify subtypes using functional connectivity data from a multisite resting-state data set. We merged data from two publicly available databases and split the data into a discovery data set (143 patients and 143 healthy controls (HC)) and an external test data set (63 patients and 63\u00a0HC) from independent sites. On the discovery data, we investigated the stability of the clustering toward data splits and initializations. Subsequently we searched for cluster solutions, also called \"views,\" with a significant diagnosis association and evaluated these based on their subject and feature cluster separability, and correlation to clinical manifestations as measured with the positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS). Finally, we validated our findings by testing the diagnosis association on the external test data. A major finding of our study was that the stability of the clustering was highly dependent on variations in the data set, and even across initializations, we found only a moderate subject clustering stability. Nevertheless, we still discovered one view with a significant diagnosis association. This view reproducibly showed an overrepresentation of schizophrenia patients in three subject clusters, and one feature cluster showed a continuous trend, ranging from positive to negative connectivity values, when sorted according to the proportions of patients with schizophrenia. When investigating all patients, none of the feature clusters in the view were associated with severity of positive, negative, and generalized symptoms, indicating that the cluster solutions reflect other disease related mechanisms.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating mental health condition that poses significant risks and burdens. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has emerged as a promising tool in investigating the neural mechanisms underlying MDD. However, a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of resting-state fMRI in MDD is currently lacking. Here, we aimed to thoroughly explore the trends and frontiers of resting-state fMRI in MDD research. The relevant publications were retrieved from the Web of Science database for the period between 1998 and 2022, and the CiteSpace software was employed to identify the influence of authors, institutions, countries/regions, and the latest research trends. A total of 1501 publications met the search criteria, revealing a gradual increase in the number of annual publications over the years. China contributed the largest publication output, accounting for the highest percentage among all countries. Particularly, the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Capital Medical University, and Harvard Medical School were identified as key institutions that have made substantial contributions to this growth. Neuroimage, Biological Psychiatry, Journal of Affective Disorders, and Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America are among the influential journals in the field of resting-state fMRI research in MDD. Burst keywords analysis suggest the emerging research frontiers in this field are characterized by prominent keywords such as dynamic functional connectivity, cognitive control network, transcranial brain stimulation, and childhood trauma. Overall, our study provides a systematic overview into the historical development, current status, and future trends of resting-state fMRI in MDD, thus offering a useful guide for researchers to plan their future research.", 
    "abstract": "To achieve a comprehensive understanding of spontaneous brain dynamics in humans, ", 
    "abstract": "Dynamic functional network connectivity (dFNC) is an expansion of static FNC (sFNC) that reflects connectivity variations among brain networks. This study aimed to investigate changes in sFNC and dFNC strength and temporal properties in individuals with subthreshold depression (StD). Forty-two individuals with subthreshold depression and 38 healthy controls (HCs) were included in this study. Group independent component analysis (GICA) was used to determine target resting-state networks, namely, executive control network (ECN), default mode network (DMN), sensorimotor network (SMN) and dorsal attentional network (DAN). Sliding window and k-means clustering analyses were used to identify dFNC patterns and temporal properties in each subject. We compared sFNC and dFNC differences between the StD and HCs groups. Relationships between changes in FNC strength, temporal properties, and neurophysiological score were evaluated by Spearman's correlation analysis. The sFNC analysis revealed decreased FNC strength in StD individuals, including the DMN-CEN, DMN-SMN, SMN-CEN, and SMN-DAN. In the dFNC analysis, 4 reoccurring FNC patterns were identified. Compared to HCs, individuals with StD had increased mean dwell time and fraction time in a weakly connected state (state 4), which is associated with self-focused thinking status. In addition, the StD group demonstrated decreased dFNC strength between the DMN-DAN in state 2. sFNC strength (DMN-ECN) and temporal properties were correlated with HAMD-17 score in StD individuals (all p\u2009<\u20090.01). Our study provides new evidence on aberrant time-varying brain activity and large-scale network interaction disruptions in StD individuals, which may provide novel insight to better understand the underlying neuropathological mechanisms.", 
    "abstract": "Acute unilateral vestibulopathy (AUVP) is the second leading cause of peripheral vestibular vertigo. Full recovery of AUVP is related to sufficient central vestibular compensation. It has been confirmed that the vestibular nucleus and vestibular cortex are involved in the process of vestibular compensatory in AUVP patients. However, few studies have focused on the functional compensation of thalamus in patients with AUVP. This study aimed to explore the alterations of resting-state functional connectivity (FC) focused on thalamus using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in AUVP patients.\nData of 3D-T1 and resting-state fMRI were collected from 40 AUVP patients and 35 healthy controls (HC). Seeds-based (bilateral thalamus) FC was analyzed to investigate the changes in FC between the two groups. Furthermore, we evaluated the associations between altered thalamus FC and clinical features in AUVP patients using Pearson's partial correlation.\nCompared with HC, AUVP patients showed decreased FC between bilateral thalamus and left insula. We also observed decreased FC between right thalamus and left supramarginal gyrus. Additionally, we found increased FC between left thalamus and right postcentral gyrus (PCG), as well as increased FC between right thalamus and regions of bilateral PCG, right middle frontal gyrus and right middle occipital gyrus in AUVP patients. Furthermore, the FC between left thalamus and left insula was negatively correlated with values of canal paresis in patients with AUVP (\nOur results provided first evidence for the decreased thalamo-vestibular cortex pathway, as well as increased thalamo-somatosensory and thalamo-visual cortex pathway in AUVP patients. These findings help us better understand the underlying mechanisms of central dynamic compensatory following an acute unilateral peripheral vestibular damage.", 
    "abstract": "Limited research has been conducted on the neural mechanisms of visuospatial attention in closed skill sports. This research aimed to delve into the unique visuospatial attention abilities of skaters and elucidate the underlying neural mechanisms.\nThis cross-sectional study employed an expert-novice paradigm, applying a purely data-driven approach to analyze and compare the resting-state networks (RSNs) associated with visuospatial attention in 15 elite skaters and 15 control subjects.\nFrom the 38 components identified by independent component analysis (ICA) algorithm, five RSNs were selected, including the dorsal attention network (DAN), left and right fronto-parietal network (FPN), somatomotor network (SMN) and visual network (VIS). Elite skaters exhibited heightened functional connectivity (FC) in the right angular gyrus and left precuneus within DAN, left fusiform gyrus within left FPN, right primary motor cortex within right FPN, left supplementary motor area within SMN, and right primary visual cortex within VIS compared to the control group. Conversely, skaters demonstrated diminished FC in the bilateral superior temporal gyrus within DAN and right prefrontal cortex within the right FPN.\nStatistical results demonstrated significant differences in RSNs related to visuospatial functions in a wide range of brain regions between elite skaters and controls. We further speculate that these variances could be attributable to alterations in visuospatial abilities resulting from years of devoted skating training. The findings of this study offer novel perspectives on the neural reorganization linked to motor training, contributing to an enriched comprehension of the neuroplasticity changes inherent in prolonged engagement in motor skill development.", 
    "abstract": "Studies comparing the brain functions of major depressive disorder (MDD) and social anxiety disorder (SAD) at the regional and network levels remain scarce. This study aimed to elucidate their pathogenesis using neuroimaging techniques and explore biomarkers that can differentiate these disorders.\nResting-state fMRI data were collected from 48 patients with MDD, 41 patients with SAD, and 82 healthy controls. Differences in the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) among the three groups were examined to identify regions showing abnormal regional spontaneous activity. A seed-based functional connectivity (FC) analysis was conducted using ALFF results as seeds and different connections were identified between regions showing abnormal local spontaneous activity and other regions. The correlation between abnormal brain function and clinical symptoms was analyzed.\nPatients with MDD and SAD exhibited similar abnormal ALFF and FC in several brain regions; notably, FC between the right superior frontal gyrus (SFG) and the right posterior supramarginal gyrus (pSMG) in patients with SAD was negatively correlated with depressive symptoms. Furthermore, patients with MDD showed higher ALFF in the right SFG than HCs and those with SAD.\nPotential effects of medications, comorbidities, and data type could not be ignored.\nMDD and SAD showed common and distinct aberrant brain function patterns at the regional and network levels. At the regional level, we found that the ALFF in the right SFG was different between patients with MDD and those with SAD. At the network level, we did not find any differences between these disorders.", 
    "abstract": "How cortical functional reorganization occurs after hearing loss in preschool children with congenital sensorineural hearing loss (CSNHL) is poorly understood. Therefore, we used resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) to explore the characteristics of cortical reorganization in these patents.\nSixty-three preschool children with CSNHL and 32 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited, and the Categories of Auditory Performance (CAP) scores were determined at the 6-month follow-up after cochlear implantation (CI). First, rs-fMRI data were preprocessed, and amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) were calculated. Second, whole-brain functional connectivity (FC) analysis was performed using bilateral primary auditory cortex as seed points. Finally, Spearman correlation analysis was performed between the differential ALFF, ReHo and FC values and the CAP score.\nALFF analysis showed that preschool children with CSNHL had lower ALFF values in the bilateral prefrontal cortex and superior temporal gyrus than HCs, but higher ALFF values in the bilateral thalamus and calcarine gyrus. And correlation analysis showed that some abnormal brain regions were weak negatively correlated with CAP score (\nAfter auditory deprivation in preschool children with CSNHL, the local functions of auditory cortex, visual cortex, prefrontal cortex and somatic motor cortex are changed, and the prefrontal cortex plays a regulatory role in this process. There is functional reorganization or compensation between children's hearing and these areas, which may not be conducive to auditory language recovery after CI in deaf children.", 
    "abstract": "Abnormal functional connectivity (FC) within the fear network model (FNM) has been identified in panic disorder (PD) patients, but the specific local structural and functional properties, as well as effective connectivity (EC), remain poorly understood in PD. The purpose of this study was to investigate the structural and functional patterns of the FNM in PD. Magnetic resonance imaging data were collected from 33 PD patients and 35 healthy controls (HCs). Gray matter volume (GMV), degree centrality (DC), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) were used to identify the structural and functional characteristics of brain regions within the FNM in PD. Subsequently, FC and EC of abnormal regions, based on local structural and functional features, and their correlation with clinical features were further examined. PD patients exhibited preserved GMV, ReHo, and ALFF in the brain regions of the FNM compared with HCs. However, increased DC in the bilateral amygdala was observed in PD patients. The amygdala and its subnuclei exhibited altered EC with rolandic operculum, insula, medial superior frontal gyrus, supramarginal gyrus, opercular part of inferior frontal gyrus, and superior temporal gyrus. Additionally, Hamilton Anxiety Scale score was positively correlated with EC from left lateral nuclei (dorsal portion) of amygdala to right rolandic operculum and left superior temporal gyrus. Our findings revealed a reorganized functional network in PD involving brain regions regulating exteroceptive-interoceptive signals, mood, and somatic symptoms. These results enhance our understanding of the neurobiological underpinnings of PD, suggesting potential biomarkers for diagnosis and targets for therapeutic intervention.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we aimed to compare imaging-based features of brain function, measured by resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI), with individual characteristics such as age, gender, and total intracranial volume to predict behavioral measures. We developed a machine learning framework based on rsfMRI features in a dataset of 20,000 healthy individuals from the UK Biobank, focusing on temporal complexity and functional connectivity measures. Our analysis across four behavioral phenotypes revealed that both temporal complexity and functional connectivity measures provide comparable predictive performance. However, individual characteristics consistently outperformed rsfMRI features in predictive accuracy, particularly in analyses involving smaller sample sizes. Integrating rsfMRI features with demographic data sometimes enhanced predictive outcomes. The efficacy of different predictive modeling techniques and the choice of brain parcellation atlas were also examined, showing no significant influence on the results. To summarize, while individual characteristics are superior to rsfMRI in predicting behavioral phenotypes, rsfMRI still conveys additional predictive value in the context of machine learning, such as investigating the role of specific brain regions in behavioral phenotypes.", 
    "abstract": "Aberrant resting-state functional connectivity is a neuropathological feature of schizophrenia (SCZ). Prior investigations into functional connectivity abnormalities have primarily employed seed-based connectivity analysis, necessitating predefined seed locations. To address this limitation, a data-driven multivariate method known as connectome-wide association study (CWAS) has been proposed for exploring whole-brain functional connectivity.\nWe conducted a CWAS analysis involving 46 patients with SCZ and 40 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Multivariate distance matrix regression (MDMR) was utilized to identify key nodes in the brain. Subsequently, we conducted a follow-up seed-based connectivity analysis to elucidate specific connectivity patterns between regions of interest (ROIs). Additionally, we explored the spatial correlation between changes in functional connectivity and underlying molecular architectures by examining correlations between neurotransmitter/transporter distribution densities and functional connectivity.\nMDMR revealed the right medial frontal gyrus and the left calcarine sulcus as two key nodes. Follow-up analysis unveiled hypoconnectivity between the right medial frontal superior gyrus and the right fusiform gyrus, as well as hypoconnectivity between the left calcarine sulcus and the right lingual gyrus in SCZ. Notably, a significant association between functional connectivity strength and positive symptom severity was identified. Furthermore, altered functional connectivity patterns suggested potential dysfunctions in the dopamine, serotonin, and gamma-aminobutyric acid systems.\nThis study elucidated reduced functional connectivity both within and between the medial frontal regions and the occipital cortex in patients with SCZ. Moreover, it indicated potential alterations in molecular architecture, thereby expanding current knowledge regarding neurobiological changes associated with SCZ.", 
    "abstract": "The incidence rate of Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is currently increasing due to wars, terrorism, and pandemic disease situations. Therefore, accurate detection of PTSD is crucial for the treatment of the patients, for this purpose, the present study aims to classify individuals with PTSD versus healthy control.\nThe resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) scans of 19 PTSD and 24 healthy control male subjects have been used to identify the activation pattern in most affected brain regions using group-level independent component analysis (ICA) and t-test. To classify PTSD-affected subjects from healthy control six machine learning techniques including random forest, Naive Bayes, support vector machine, decision tree, K-nearest neighbor, linear discriminant analysis, and deep learning three-dimensional 3D-CNN have been performed on the data and compared.\nThe rs-fMRI scans of the most commonly investigated 11 regions of trauma-exposed and healthy brains are analyzed to observe their level of activation. Amygdala and insula regions are determined as the most activated regions from the regions-of-interest in the brain of PTSD subjects. In addition, machine learning techniques have been applied to the components extracted from ICA but the models provided low classification accuracy. The ICA components are also fed into the 3D-CNN model, which is trained with a 5-fold cross-validation method. The 3D-CNN model demonstrated high accuracies, such as 98.12%, 98.25 %, and 98.00 % on average with training, validation, and testing datasets, respectively.\nThe findings indicate that 3D-CNN is a surpassing method than the other six considered techniques and it helps to recognize PTSD patients accurately.", 
    "abstract": "Schizophrenia is a prevalent mental disorder, leading to severe disability. Currently, the absence of objective biomarkers hinders effective diagnosis. This study was conducted to explore the aberrant spontaneous brain activity and investigate the potential of abnormal brain indices as diagnostic biomarkers employing machine learning methods.\nA total of sixty-one schizophrenia patients and seventy demographically matched healthy controls were enrolled in this study. The static indices of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) including amplitude of low frequency fluctuations (ALFF), fractional ALFF (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and degree centrality (DC) were calculated to evaluate spontaneous brain activity. Subsequently, a sliding-window method was then used to conduct temporal dynamic analysis. The comparison of static and dynamic rs-fMRI indices between the patient and control groups was conducted using a two-sample t-test. Finally, the machine learning analysis was applied to estimate the diagnostic value of abnormal indices of brain activity.\nSchizophrenia patients exhibited a significant increase ALFF value in inferior frontal gyrus, alongside significant decreases in fALFF values observed in left postcentral gyrus and right cerebellum posterior lobe. Pervasive aberrations in ReHo indices were observed among schizophrenia patients, particularly in frontal lobe and cerebellum. A noteworthy reduction in voxel-wise concordance of dynamic indices was observed across gray matter regions encompassing the bilateral frontal, parietal, occipital, temporal, and insular cortices. The classification analysis achieved the highest values for area under curve at 0.87 and accuracy at 81.28% when applying linear support vector machine and leveraging a combination of abnormal static and dynamic indices in the specified brain regions as features.\nThe static and dynamic indices of brain activity exhibited as potential neuroimaging biomarkers for the diagnosis of schizophrenia.", 
    "abstract": "Functional inhibition is known to improve treatment outcomes in substance use disorder (SUD), potentially through craving management enabled by underlying cerebral integrity. Whereas treatment is challenged by a multitude of substances that patients often use, no study has yet unraveled if inhibition and related cerebral integrity could prevent relapse from multiples substances, that is, one's primary drug of choice and secondary ones. Individuals with primary alcohol, cannabis, or tobacco use disorders completed intensive Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) coupled with resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) to characterize the extent to which inhibition and cerebral substrates interact with craving and use of primary and any substances. Participants were 64 patients with SUD and 35 healthy controls who completed one week EMA using Smartphones to report 5 times daily their craving intensity and substance use and to complete Stroop inhibition testing twice daily. Subsamples of 40 patients with SUD and 34 control individuals underwent rs-fMRI. Mixed Model Analysis revealed that reported use of any substance by SUD individuals predicted later use of any and primary substance, whereas use of the primary substance only predicted higher use of that same substances. Craving and inhibition level independently predicted later use but did not significantly interact. Preserved inhibition performance additionally influenced use indirectly by mediating the link between subsequent uses and by being linked to rs-fMRI connectivity strength in fronto-frontal and cerebello-occipital connections. As hypothesized, preserved inhibition performance, reinforced by the integrity of inhibitory neurofunctional substrates, may partake in breaking an unhealthy substance use pattern for a primary substance but may not generalize to non-target substances or to craving management.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) is increasingly being used to infer the functional organization of the brain. Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) features related to spontaneous neuronal activity, are yet to be clearly understood. Prior studies have hypothesized that rs-fMRI is spontaneous event-related and these events convey crucial information about the neuronal activity in estimating resting state functional connectivity (FC). Attempts have been made to extract these temporal events using a predetermined threshold. However, the thresholding methods in addition to being very sensitive to noise, may consider redundant events or exclude the low-valued inflection points. Here, we extract the event-related temporal onsets from the rs-fMRI time courses using a zero-frequency resonator (ZFR). The ZFR reflects the transient behavior of the BOLD events at its output. The conditional rate (CR) of the BOLD events occurring in a time course with respect to a seed time course is used to derive static FC. The temporal activity around the estimated events called high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) segments are also obtained in the rs-fMRI time course and are then used to compute static and dynamic FCs during rest. Coactivation pattern (CAP) is the dynamic FC obtained using the high SNR segments driven by the ZFR. The static FC demonstrates that the ZFR-based CR distinguishes the coactivation and non-coactivation scores well in the distribution. CAP analysis demonstrated the stable and longer dwell time dominant resting state functional networks with high SNR segments driven by the ZFR. Static and dynamic FC analysis underpins that the ZFR-driven temporal onsets of BOLD events derive reliable and consistent FCs in the resting brain using a subset of the time points.", 
    "abstract": "Psychotic symptoms are among the most debilitating and challenging presentations of severe psychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia, schizoaffective, and bipolar disorder. A pathophysiological understanding of intrinsic brain activity underlying psychosis is crucial to improve diagnosis and treatment. While a potential continuum along the psychotic spectrum has been recently described in neuroimaging studies, especially for what concerns absolute and relative amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF and fALFF), these efforts have given heterogeneous results. A transdiagnostic meta-analysis of ALFF/fALFF in patients with psychosis compared to healthy controls is currently lacking. Therefore, in this pre-registered systematic review and meta-analysis PubMed, Scopus, and Embase were searched for articles comparing ALFF/fALFF between psychotic patients and healthy controls. A quantitative synthesis of differences in (f)ALFF between patients along the psychotic spectrum and healthy controls was performed with Seed-based d Mapping, adjusting for age, sex, duration of illness, clinical severity. All results were corrected for multiple comparisons by Family-Wise Error rates. While lower ALFF and fALFF were detected in patients with psychosis in comparison to controls, no specific finding survived correction for multiple comparisons. Lack of this correction might explain the discordant findings highlighted in previous literature. Other potential explanations include methodological issues, such as the lack of standardization in pre-processing or analytical procedures among studies. Future research on ALFF/fALFF differences for patients with psychosis should prioritize the replicability of individual studies.\nhttps://osf.io/, identifier (ycqpz).", 
    "abstract": "Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) closely correlates to cognitive impairment, but its pathophysiology and the neurovascular mechanisms of cognitive deficits were unclear. We aimed to explore the dysfunctional patterns of neurovascular coupling (NVC) in patients with CSVD and further investigate the neurovascular mechanisms of CSVD-related cognitive impairment.\nForty-three patients with CSVD and twenty-four healthy controls were recruited. We adopted resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging combined with arterial spin labeling to investigate the NVC dysfunctional patterns in patients with CSVD. The Human Brain Atlas with 246 brain regions was applied to extract the NVC coefficients for each brain region. Partial correlation analysis and mediation analysis were used to explore the relationship between CSVD pathological features, NVC dysfunctional patterns, and cognitive decline.\n8 brain regions with NVC dysfunction were found in patients with CSVD (p\u00a0<\u00a00.025, Bonferroni correction). The NVC dysfunctional patterns in regions of the default mode network and subcortical nuclei were negatively associated with lacunes, white matter hyperintensities burden, and the severity of CSVD (FDR correction, q\u00a0<\u00a00.05). The NVC decoupling in regions located in the default mode network positively correlated with delayed recall deficits (FDR correction, q\u00a0<\u00a00.05). Mediation analysis suggested that the decreased NVC pattern of the left superior frontal gyrus partially mediated the impact of white matter hyperintensities on delayed recall (Mediation effect: -0.119; 95%CI: -11.604,-0.458; p\u00a0<\u00a00.05).\nThe findings of this study reveal the NVC dysfunctional pattern in patients with CSVD and illustrate the neurovascular mechanism of CSVD-related cognitive impairment. The NVC function in the left superior frontal gyrus may serve as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target for memory deficits in patients with CSVD.", 
    "abstract": "Theoretical and empirical evidence indicates the critical role of the default mode network (DMN) in the pathophysiology of the bipolar disorder (BD). This study aims to identify the specific brain regions of the DMN that is impaired in patients with BD.\nA total of 56 patients with BD and 71 healthy controls (HC) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. Three commonly used functional indices, i.e., fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and degree centrality (DC), were utilized to identify the brain region showing abnormal spontaneous brain activity in patients with BD. Then, this region served as the seed region for resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) analysis.\nCompared to the HC group, the BD group showed reduced fALFF, ReHo, and DC values in the left precuneus. Moreover, patients exhibited decreased rsFCs within the left precuneus and between the left precuneus and the medial prefrontal cortex. Additionally, there was diminished negative connectivity between the left precuneus and the left putamen, extending to the left insula (putamen/insula). The abnormalities in DMN functional connectivity were confirmed through various analysis strategies.\nOur findings provide convergent evidence for the abnormalities in the DMN, particularly located in the left precuneus. Decreased functional connectivity within the DMN and the reduced anticorrelation between the DMN and the salience network are found in patients with BD. These findings suggest that the DMN is a key aspect for understanding the neural basis of BD, and the altered functional patterns of DMN may be a potential candidate biomarker for diagnosis of BD.", 
    "abstract": "Early initiation of antipsychotic treatment plays a crucial role in the management of first-episode schizophrenia (FES) patients, significantly improving their prognosis. However, limited attention has been given to the long-term effects of antipsychotic drug therapy on FES patients. In this research, we examined the changes in abnormal brain regions among FES patients undergoing long-term treatment using a dynamic perspective. A total of 98 participants were included in the data analysis, comprising 48 FES patients, 50 healthy controls, 22 patients completed a follow-up period of more than 6\u00a0months with qualified data. We processed resting-state fMRI data to calculate coefficient of variation of fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (CVfALFF), which reflects the brain regional activity stability. Data analysis was performed at baseline and after long-term treatment. We observed that compared with HCs, patients at baseline showed an elevated CVfALFF in the supramarginal gyrus (SMG), parahippocampal gyrus (PHG), caudate, orbital part of inferior frontal gyrus (IOG), insula, and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). After long-term treatment, the instability in SMG, PHG, caudate, IOG, insula and inferior IFG have ameliorated. Additionally, there was a positive correlation between the decrease in dfALFF in the SMG and the reduction in the SANS total score following long-term treatment. In conclusion, FES patients exhibit unstable regional activity in widespread brain regions at baseline, which can be ameliorated with long-term treatment. Moreover, the extent of amelioration in SMG instability is associated with the amelioration of negative symptoms.", 
    "abstract": "Normative childhood motor network resting-state fMRI effective connectivity is undefined, yet necessary for translatable dynamic resting-state-network-informed evaluation in pediatric cerebral palsy.\nCross-spectral dynamic causal modeling of resting-state-fMRI was investigated in 50 neurotypically developing 5- to 13-year-old children. Fully connected six-node network models per hemisphere included primary motor cortex, striatum, subthalamic nucleus, globus pallidus internus, thalamus, and contralateral cerebellum. Parametric Empirical Bayes with exhaustive Bayesian model reduction and Bayesian modeling averaging informed the model; Purdue Pegboard Test scores of hand motor behavior were the covariate at the group level to determine the effective-connectivity-functional behavior relationship.\nAlthough both hemispheres exhibited similar effective connectivity of motor cortico-basal ganglia-cerebellar networks, magnitudes were slightly greater on the right, except for left-sided connections of the striatum which were more numerous and of opposite polarity. Inter-nodal motor network effective connectivity remained consistent and robust across subjects. Age had a greater impact on connections to the contralateral cerebellum, bilaterally. Motor behavior, however, affected different connections in each hemisphere, exerting a more prominent effect on the left modulatory connections to the subthalamic nucleus, contralateral cerebellum, primary motor cortex, and thalamus.\nThis study revealed a consistent pattern of directed resting-state effective connectivity in healthy children aged 5-13\u2009years within the motor network, encompassing cortical, subcortical, and cerebellar regions, correlated with motor skill proficiency. Both hemispheres exhibited similar effective connectivity within motor cortico-basal ganglia-cerebellar networks reflecting inter-nodal signal direction predicted by other modalities, mainly differing from task-dependent studies due to network differences at rest. Notably, age-related changes were more pronounced in connections to the contralateral cerebellum. Conversely, motor behavior distinctly impacted connections in each hemisphere, emphasizing its role in modulating left sided connections to the subthalamic nucleus, contralateral cerebellum, primary motor cortex, and thalamus. Motor network effective connectivity was correlated with motor behavior, validating its physiological significance. This study is the first to evaluate a normative effective connectivity model for the pediatric motor network using resting-state functional MRI correlating with behavior and serves as a foundation for identifying abnormal findings and optimizing targeted interventions like deep brain stimulation, potentially influencing future therapeutic approaches for children with movement disorders.", 
    "abstract": "This study was conducted to explore the differences in functional changes in the pain matrix in patients with chronic back pain (CBP) at different stages and identify whether these brain changes were related to the pain duration.\nIn this study, 29 healthy individuals and 54 patients with CBP were recruited. According to the pain duration, 25 patients (3 to 12 months) were divided into the CBP-S group and 29 patients (\u2265 24 months) were divided into the CBP-L group. All subjects completed clinical pain-related measurement and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans. Moreover, the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), functional connectivity (FC), and correlation analysis were conducted in this study.\nCompared with healthy controls, patients in the CBP-L group showed significantly decreased ALFF in the left precuneus. In the FC analysis, patients in the CBP-S and CBP-L groups showed significantly decreased FC in several regions in the bilateral orbitofrontal cortices (OFC) and the left ventral posterior insula. Moreover, there were significant differences in the FC between the left hyper granular insula and the probabilistic area in OFC in pairwise group comparisons. The correlation analysis results demonstrated that pain duration was correlated with these functional brain changes, and the ANCOVA results revealed that pain intensity and pain interference scores did not affect the FC analysis results.\nThere are different changes in the pain neural matrix in patients with chronic pain at different stages. Furthermore, the pain duration is related to brain functional changes.", 
    "abstract": "TSPO ligands are promising alternatives to benzodiazepines in the treatment of anxiety, as they display less pronounced side effects such as sedation, cognitive impairment, tolerance development and abuse potential. In a randomized double-blind repeated-measures study we compare a benzodiazepine (alprazolam) to a TSPO ligand (etifoxine) by assessing side effects and acquiring resting-state fMRI data from 34 healthy participants after 5 days of taking alprazolam, etifoxine or a placebo. To study the effects of the pharmacological interventions in fMRI in detail and across different scales, we combine in our study complementary analysis strategies related to whole-brain functional network connectivity, local connectivity analysis expressed in regional homogeneity, fluctuations in low-frequency BOLD amplitudes and coherency of independent resting-state networks. Participants reported considerable adverse effects such as fatigue, sleepiness and concentration impairments, related to the administration of alprazolam compared to placebo. In resting-state fMRI we found a significant decrease in functional connection density, network efficiency and a decrease in the networks rich-club coefficient related to alprazolam. While observing a general decrease in regional homogeneity in high-level brain networks in the alprazolam condition, we simultaneously could detect an increase in regional homogeneity and resting-state network coherence in low-level sensory regions. Further we found a general increase in the low-frequency compartment of the BOLD signal. In the etifoxine condition, participants did not report any significant side effects compared to the placebo, and we did not observe any corresponding modulations in our fMRI metrics. Our results are consistent with the idea that sedation globally disconnects low-level functional networks, but simultaneously increases their within-connectivity. Further, our results point towards the potential of TSPO ligands in the treatment of anxiety and depression.", 
    "abstract": "Measures of fMRI resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC) are an essential tool for basic and clinical investigations of fronto-limbic circuits. Understanding the relationship between rs-FC and the underlying patterns of neural activity in these circuits is therefore vital. Here we introduced inhibitory designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADDs) into the amygdala of two male macaques. We evaluated the causal effect of activating the DREADD receptors on rs-FC and neural activity within circuits connecting amygdala and frontal cortex. Activating the inhibitory DREADD increased rs-FC between amygdala and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Neurophysiological recordings revealed that the DREADD-induced increase in fMRI rs-FC was associated with increased local field potential coherency in the alpha band (6.5-14.5\u2009Hz) between amygdala and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Thus, our multi-modal approach reveals the specific signature of neuronal activity that underlies rs-FC in fronto-limbic circuits.", 
    "abstract": "Long-term motor skill training has been shown to induce anatomical and functional neuroplasticity. World class gymnasts (WCGs) provide a unique opportunity to investigate the effect of long-term intensive training on neuroplasticity. Previous resting-state fMRI studies have demonstrated a high efficient information processing related to motor and cognitive functions in gymnasts compared with healthy controls (HCs). However, most research treated brain signals as static, overlooking the fact that the brain is a complex and dynamic system. In this study, we employed functional stability, a new metric based on dynamic functional connectivity (FC), to examine the impact of long-term intensive training on the functional architecture in the WCGs.\nWe first conducted a voxel-wise analysis of functional stability between the WCGs and HCs. Then, we applied FC density (FCD) to explore whether regions with modified functional stability were also accompanied by changes in connection patterns in the WCGs. We identified overlapping regions showing significant differences in both functional stability and FCD. Finally, we applied seed-based correlation analysis (SCA) to determine the detailed changes in connection patterns between the WCGs and HCs within these overlapping regions.\nCompared with the HCs, the WCGs exhibited higher functional stability in the bilateral angular gyrus (AG), bilateral inferior temporal gyrus (ITG), bilateral precentral gyrus, and right superior frontal gyrus and lower functional stability in the bilateral hippocampus, bilateral caudate, right rolandic operculum, left superior temporal gyrus, right middle frontal gyrus, right middle cingular cortex, and right precuneus than the HCs. We found that the bilateral AG and ITG not only showed higher functional stability but also increased global and long-range FCD in the WCGs relative to the HCs. The right precuneus displayed lower functional stability as well as decreased local, long-range, and global FCD in the WCGs. Both AG and ITG showed higher FC with regions in the default mode network (DMN) in the WCGs than in the HCs.\nThe increased functional stability in the AG and ITG might be associated with enhanced functional integration within the DMN in the WCGs. These findings may offer new spatiotemporal evidence for the impact of long-term intensive training on neuroplasticity.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The complexity of fMRI signals quantifies temporal dynamics of spontaneous neural activity, which has been increasingly recognized as providing important insights into cognitive functions and psychiatric disorders. However, its heritability and structural underpinnings are not well understood. Here, we utilize multi-scale sample entropy to extract resting-state fMRI complexity in a large healthy adult sample from the Human Connectome Project. We show that fMRI complexity at multiple time scales is heritable in broad brain regions. Heritability estimates are modest and regionally variable. We relate fMRI complexity to brain structure including surface area, cortical myelination, cortical thickness, subcortical volumes, and total brain volume. We find that surface area is negatively correlated with fine-scale complexity and positively correlated with coarse-scale complexity in most cortical regions, especially the association cortex. Most of these correlations are related to common genetic and environmental effects. We also find positive correlations between cortical myelination and fMRI complexity at fine scales and negative correlations at coarse scales in the prefrontal cortex, lateral temporal lobe, precuneus, lateral parietal cortex, and cingulate cortex, with these correlations mainly attributed to common environmental effects. We detect few significant associations between fMRI complexity and cortical thickness. Despite the non-significant association with total brain volume, fMRI complexity exhibits significant correlations with subcortical volumes in the hippocampus, cerebellum, putamen, and pallidum at certain scales. Collectively, our work establishes the genetic basis and structural correlates of resting-state fMRI complexity across multiple scales, supporting its potential application as an endophenotype for psychiatric disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Data-based predictions of individual Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) treatment response are a fundamental step towards precision medicine. Past studies demonstrated only moderate prediction accuracy (i.e. ability to discriminate between responders and non-responders of a given treatment) when using clinical routine data such as demographic and questionnaire data, while neuroimaging data achieved superior prediction accuracy. However, these studies may be considerably biased due to very limited sample sizes and bias-prone methodology. Adequately powered and cross-validated samples are a prerequisite to evaluate predictive performance and to identify the most promising predictors. We therefore analyzed resting state functional magnet resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data from two large clinical trials to test whether functional neuroimaging data continues to provide good prediction accuracy in much larger samples. Data came from two distinct German multicenter studies on exposure-based CBT for anxiety disorders, the Protect-AD and SpiderVR studies. We separately and independently preprocessed baseline rs-fMRI data from n = 220 patients (Protect-AD) and n = 190 patients (SpiderVR) and extracted a variety of features, including ROI-to-ROI and edge-functional connectivity, sliding-windows, and graph measures. Including these features in sophisticated machine learning pipelines, we found that predictions of individual outcomes never significantly differed from chance level, even when conducting a range of exploratory post-hoc analyses. Moreover, resting state data never provided prediction accuracy beyond the sociodemographic and clinical data. The analyses were independent of each other in terms of selecting methods to process resting state data for prediction input as well as in the used parameters of the machine learning pipelines, corroborating the external validity of the results. These similar findings in two independent studies, analyzed separately, urge caution regarding the interpretation of promising prediction results based on neuroimaging data from small samples and emphasizes that some of the prediction accuracies from previous studies may result from overestimation due to homogeneous data and weak cross-validation schemes. The promise of resting-state neuroimaging data to play an important role in the prediction of CBT treatment outcomes in patients with anxiety disorders remains yet to be delivered.", 
    "abstract": "Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) are highly comorbid. Many prior investigations have found that ADHD relates to anatomical abnormalities in gray matter. The abnormal gray matter of ADHD comorbid ODD is still poorly understood. This study aimed to explore the effect of comorbid ODD on gray matter volume (GMV) and functional alterations in ADHD. All data were provided by the ADHD-200 Preprocessed Repository, including 27 ADHD-only children, 27 ADHD\u2009+\u2009ODD children, and 27 healthy controls aged 9-14\u2009years. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and functional connectivity (FC) of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) were used to compare the difference in GMV and FC between ADHD\u2009+\u2009ODD, ADHD-only, and healthy children. The results showed that ADHD children with comorbid ODD had a more significant reduction in cerebellar volume, mainly in the anterior regions of the cerebellum (Cerebellum_4_5). The Cerebellum_4_5 showed increased functional connectivity with multiple cortical regions. These brain regions include numerous executive functioning (EF) and brain default mode network (DMN) nodes. The GMV abnormalities and excessive connectivity between brain regions may further exacerbate the emotional and cognitive deficits associated with ADHD.", 
    "abstract": "Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used to measure the temporal correlation of blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signals in the brain to assess the brain's intrinsic connectivity and capture dynamic changes in the brain. In this study, the hidden Markov model (HMM) and dynamic graph (DG) theory are used to study the spatial-temporal characteristics and dynamics of brain networks based on dynamic functional connectivity (DFC). By using HMM, we identified three typical brain states for ASD and healthy control (HC). Furthermore, we explored the correlation between HMM time-varying properties and clinical autism scale scores. Differences in brain topological characteristics and dynamics between ASD and HC were compared by DG analysis. The experimental results indicate that ASD is more inclined to enter a strongly connected HMM brain state, leading to the isolation of brain networks and alterations in the topological characteristics of brain networks, such as default mode network (DMN), ventral attention network (VAN), and visual network (VN). This work suggests that using different data-driven methods based on DFC to study brain network dynamics would have better information complementarity, which can provide a new direction for the extraction of neuro-biomarkers in the early diagnosis of ASD.", 
    "abstract": "High-grade glioma (HGG) is the most common and deadly malignant glioma of the central nervous system. The current standard of care includes surgical resection of the tumor, which can lead to functional and cognitive deficits. The aim of this study is to develop models capable of predicting functional outcomes in HGG patients before surgery, facilitating improved disease management and informed patient care.\nAdult HGG patients (N\u2009=\u2009102) from the neurosurgery brain tumor service at Washington University Medical Center were retrospectively recruited. All patients completed structural neuroimaging and resting state functional MRI prior to surgery. Demographics, measures of resting state network connectivity (FC), tumor location, and tumor volume were used to train a random forest classifier to predict functional outcomes based on Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS\u2009<\u200970, KPS\u2009\u2265\u200970).\nThe models achieved a nested cross-validation accuracy of 94.1% and an AUC of 0.97 in classifying KPS. The strongest predictors identified by the model included FC between somatomotor, visual, auditory, and reward networks. Based on location, the relation of the tumor to dorsal attention, cingulo-opercular, and basal ganglia networks were strong predictors of KPS. Age was also a strong predictor. However, tumor volume was only a moderate predictor.\nThe current work demonstrates the ability of machine learning to classify postoperative functional outcomes in HGG patients prior to surgery accurately. Our results suggest that both FC and the tumor's location in relation to specific networks can serve as reliable predictors of functional outcomes, leading to personalized therapeutic approaches tailored to individual patients.", 
    "abstract": "As an alternative to task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (T-fMRI), resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (Rs-fMRI) is suggested for preoperative mapping of patients with brain tumours, with an emphasis on treatment guidance and neurodegeneration prediction. A systematic review was conducted of 18 recent studies involving 1035 patients with brain tumours and Rs-fMRI protocols. This was accomplished by searching the electronic databases PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. For clinical benefit, we compared Rs-fMRI to standard T-fMRI and intraoperative direct cortical stimulation (DCS). The results of Rs-fMRI and T-fMRI were compared and their correlation with intraoperative DCS results was examined through a systematic review. Our exhaustive investigation demonstrated that Rs-fMRI is a dependable and sensitive preoperative mapping technique that detects neural networks in the brain with precision and identifies crucial functional regions in agreement with intraoperative DCS. Rs-fMRI comes in handy, especially in situations where T-fMRI proves to be difficult because of patient-specific factors. Additionally, our exhaustive investigation demonstrated that Rs-fMRI is a valuable tool in the preoperative screening and evaluation of brain tumours. Furthermore, its capability to assess brain function, forecast surgical results, and enhance decision-making may render it applicable in the clinical management of brain tumours.", 
    "abstract": "Early, accurate diagnosis of neurodegenerative dementia subtypes such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is crucial for the effectiveness of their treatments. However, distinguishing these conditions becomes challenging when symptoms overlap or the conditions present atypically. Resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) studies have demonstrated condition-specific alterations in AD, FTD, and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) compared to healthy controls (HC). Here, we used machine learning to build a diagnostic classification model based on these alterations. We curated all rs-fMRIs and their corresponding clinical information from the ADNI and FTLDNI databases. Imaging data underwent preprocessing, time course extraction, and feature extraction in preparation for the analyses. The imaging features data and clinical variables were fed into gradient-boosted decision trees with fivefold nested cross-validation to build models that classified four groups: AD, FTD, HC, and MCI. The mean and 95% confidence intervals for model performance metrics were calculated using the unseen test sets in the cross-validation rounds. The model built using only imaging features achieved 74.4% mean balanced accuracy, 0.94 mean macro-averaged AUC, and 0.73 mean macro-averaged F1 score. It accurately classified FTD (F1\u2009=\u20090.99), HC (F1\u2009=\u20090.99), and MCI (F1\u2009=\u20090.86) fMRIs but mostly misclassified AD scans as MCI (F1\u2009=\u20090.08). Adding clinical variables to model inputs raised balanced accuracy to 91.1%, macro-averaged AUC to 0.99, macro-averaged F1 score to 0.92, and improved AD classification accuracy (F1\u2009=\u20090.74). In conclusion, a multimodal model based on rs-fMRI and clinical data accurately differentiates AD-MCI vs. FTD vs. HC.", 
    "abstract": "Long-term skill learning can lead to structure and function changes in the brain. Different sports can trigger neuroplasticity in distinct brain regions. Volleyball, as one of the most popular team sports, heavily relies on individual abilities such as perception and prediction for high-level athletes to excel. However, the specific brain mechanisms that contribute to the superior performance of volleyball athletes compared to non-athletes remain unclear.\nWe conducted a study involving the recruitment of ten female volleyball athletes and ten regular female college students, forming the athlete and novice groups, respectively. Comprehensive behavioral assessments, including Functional Movement Screen and audio-visual reaction time tests, were administered to both groups. Additionally, resting-state magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data were acquired for both groups. Subsequently, we conducted in-depth analyses, focusing on the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and functional connectivity (FC) in the brain for both the athlete and novice groups.\nNo significant differences were observed in the behavioral data between the two groups. However, the athlete group exhibited noteworthy enhancements in both the ALFF and ReHo within the visual cortex compared to the novice group. Moreover, the functional connectivity between the visual cortex and key brain regions, including the left primary sensory cortex, left supplementary motor cortex, right insula, left superior temporal gyrus, and left inferior parietal lobule, was notably stronger in the athlete group than in the novice group.\nThis study has unveiled the remarkable impact of volleyball athletes on various brain functions related to vision, movement, and cognition. It indicates that volleyball, as a team-based competitive activity, fosters the advancement of visual, cognitive, and motor skills. These findings lend additional support to the early cultivation of sports talents and the comprehensive development of adolescents. Furthermore, they offer fresh perspectives on preventing and treating movement-related disorders.\nRegistration number: ChiCTR2400079602. Date of Registration: January 8, 2024.", 
    "abstract": "Pain is a multidimensional subjective experience sustained by multiple brain regions involved in different aspects of pain experience. We used brain entropy (BEN) estimated from resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) data to investigate the neural correlates of pain experience. BEN was estimated from rs-fMRI data provided by two datasets with different age range: the Human Connectome Project-Young Adult (HCP-YA) and the Human Connectome project-Aging (HCP-A) datasets. Retrospective assessment of experienced pain intensity was retrieved from both datasets. No main effect of pain intensity was observed. The interaction between pain and age, however, was related to increased BEN in several pain-related brain regions, reflecting greater variability of spontaneous brain activity. Dividing the sample into a young adult group (YG) and a middle age-aging group (MAG) resulted in two divergent patterns of pain-BEN association: In the YG, pain intensity was related to reduced BEN in brain regions involved in the sensory processing of pain; in the MAG, pain was associated with increased BEN in areas related to both sensory and cognitive aspects of pain experience.", 
    "doi": "10.1002/jnr.25341\n10.3389/fnana.2014.00015/abstract\n10.1017/S146479310100570X\n10.1152/ajpheart.2000.278.6.H2039\n10.1371/journal.pone.0089948", 
    "abstract": "Tic disorders (TD) are characterized by the presence of motor and/or vocal tics. Common neurophysiological frameworks suggest dysregulations of the cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical (CSTC) brain circuit that controls movement execution. Besides common tics, there are other \"non-tic\" symptoms that are primarily related to sensory perception, sensorimotor integration, attention, and social cognition. The existence of these symptoms, the sensory tic triggers, and the modifying effect of attention and cognitive control mechanisms on tics may indicate the salience network's (SN) involvement in the neurophysiology of TD. Resting-state functional MRI measurements were performed in 26 participants with TD and 25 healthy controls (HC). The group differences in resting-state functional connectivity patterns were measured based on seed-to-voxel connectivity analyses. Compared to HC, patients with TD exhibited altered connectivity between the core regions of the SN (insula, anterior cingulate cortex, and temporoparietal junction) and sensory, associative, and motor-related cortices. Furthermore, connectivity changes were observed in relation to the severity of tics in the TD group. The SN, particularly the insula, is likely to be an important site of dysregulation in TD. Our results provide evidence for large-scale neural deviations in TD beyond the CSTC pathologies. These findings may be relevant for developing treatment targets.", 
    "abstract": "Ejaculation is regulated by the central nervous system. However, the central pathophysiology of primary intravaginal anejaculation (PIAJ) is unclear. The present study aimed to examine the changes in regional brain activity and functional connectivity underlying PIAJ. A total of 20 PIAJ patients and 16 healthy controls (HCs) were enrolled from September 2020 to September 2022 in the Department of Andrology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital (Nanjing, China). Magnetic resonance imaging data were acquired from all participants and then were preprocessed. The measures of fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and functional connectivity (FC) were calculated and compared between the groups. PIAJ patients showed increased fALFF values in the left precuneus compared with HCs. Additionally, PIAJ patients showed increased ReHo values in the left precuneus, left postcentral gyrus, left superior occipital gyrus, left calcarine fissure, right precuneus, and right middle temporal gyrus, and decreased ReHo values in the left inferior parietal gyrus, compared with HCs. Finally, brain regions with altered fALFF and ReHo values in PIAJ patients showed increased FC with widespread cortical regions, which included the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital regions, compared with HCs. In conclusion, increased regional brain activity in the parietal, temporal, and occipital regions, and increased FC between these brain regions, may be associated with PIAJ occurrence.", 
    "abstract": "Human brain is a massive information generation and processing machine. Studying the information flow may provide unique insight into brain function and brain diseases. We present here a tool for mapping the regional information flow in the entire brain using fMRI. Using the tool, we can estimate the information flow from a single region to the rest of the brain, between different regions, between different days, or between different individuals' brain.", 
    "abstract": "Obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is associated with cognitive impairment and physiological complications, necessitating further understanding of its mechanisms. This study investigates the relationship between glymphatic system function, brain network efficiency, and cognitive impairment in OSAHS patients using diffusion tensor image analysis along the perivascular space (DTI-ALPS) and resting-state fMRI.\nThis study included 31 OSAHS patients and 34 age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC). All participants underwent GE 3.0T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion tensor image (DTI) and resting-state fMRI scans. The DTI-ALPS index and brain functional networks were assessed. Differences between groups and correlations with clinical characteristics were analyzed. Additionally, the mediating role of brain network efficiency was explored. Finally, receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis assessed diagnostic performance.\nOSAHS patients had significantly lower ALPS-index (1.268 vs. 1.431, p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001) and moderate negative correlation with Apnea Hypopnea Index (AHI) (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.389, p\u00a0=\u00a00.031), as well as moderate positive correlation with Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) (r\u00a0=\u00a00.525, p\u00a0=\u00a00.002). Moreover, global efficiency (Eg) of the brain network was positively correlated with the ALPS-index and MoCA scores in OSAHS patients (r\u00a0=\u00a00.405, p\u00a0=\u00a00.024; r\u00a0=\u00a00.56, p\u00a0=\u00a00.001, respectively). Furthermore, mediation analysis showed that global efficiency partially mediated the impact of glymphatic system dysfunction on cognitive impairment in OSAHS patients (indirect effect\u00a0=\u00a04.58, mediation effect\u00a0=\u00a026.9\u00a0%). The AUROC for identifying OSAHS and HC was 0.80 (95\u00a0% CI 0.69 to 0.91) using an ALPS-index cut-off of 1.35.\nOSAHS patients exhibit decreased ALPS-index, indicating impaired glymphatic system function. Dysfunction of the glymphatic system can affect cognitive function in OSAHS by disrupting brain functional network, suggesting a potential underlying pathological mechanism. Additionally, preliminary findings suggest that the ALPS-index may offer promise as a potential indicator for OSAHS.", 
    "abstract": "The objective of this study was to investigate the functional changes associated with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) using independent component analysis (ICA) with the word generation task functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and resting-state fMRI.\nIn this study 17 patients with MCI and age and education-matched 17 healthy individuals as control group are investigated. All participants underwent resting-state fMRI and task-based fMRI while performing the word generation task. ICA was used to identify the appropriate independent components (ICs) and their associated networks. The Dice Coefficient method was used to determine the relevance of the ICs to the networks of interest.\nIC-14 was found relevant to language network in both resting-state and task-based fMRI, IC-4 to visual, and IC-28 to dorsal attention network (DAN) in word generation task-based fMRI by Sorento-Dice Coefficient. ICA showed increased activation in language network, which had a larger voxel size in resting-state functional MRI than word generation task-based fMRI in the bilateral lingual gyrus. Right temporo-occipital fusiform cortex, right hippocampus, and right thalamus were also activated in the task-based fMRI. Decreased activation was found in DAN and visual network MCI patients in word generation task-based fMRI.\nTask-based fMRI and ICA are more sophisticated and reliable tools in evaluation cognitive impairments in language processing. Our findings support the neural mechanisms of the cognitive impairments in MCI.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies have demonstrated impaired cerebellar function in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), which is associated with impaired cognition. However, the effects of OSA on resting-state functional connectivity (FC) in the cerebellum has not been determined. The purpose of this study was to investigate resting-state FC of the cerebellar subregions and its relevance to clinical symptoms in patients with OSA.\nSixty-eight patients with OSA and seventy-two healthy controls (HCs) were included in the study. Eight subregions of the cerebellum were selected as regions of interest, and the FC values were calculated for each subregion with other voxels. A correlation analysis was performed to examine the relationship between clinical and cognitive data.\nPatients with OSA showed higher FC in specific regions, including the right lobule VI with the right posterior middle temporal gyrus and right angular gyrus, the right Crus I with the bilateral precuneus/left superior parietal lobule, and the right Crus II with the precuneus/right posterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, the oxygen depletion index was negatively correlated with aberrant FC between the right Crus II and the bilateral precuneus / right posterior cingulate cortex in OSA patients (p\u2009=\u20090.004).\nThe cerebellum is functionally lateralized and closely linked to the posterior default mode network. Higher FC is related to cognition, emotion, language, and sleep in OSA. Abnormal FC may offer new neuroimaging evidence and insights for a deeper comprehension of OSA-related alterations.", 
    "abstract": "Only a few studies have focused on the brain mechanisms underlying the itch processing in AD patients, and a neural biomarker has never been studied in AD patients. We aimed to develop a deep learning model-based neural signature which can extract the relevant temporal dynamics, discriminate between AD and healthy control (HC), and between AD patients who responded well to acupuncture treatment and those who did not.\nWe recruited 41 AD patients (22 male, age mean \u00b1 SD: 24.34 \u00b1 5.29) and 40 HCs (20 male, age mean \u00b1 SD: 26.4 \u00b1 5.32), and measured resting-state functional MRI signals. After preprocessing, 38 functional regions of interest were applied to the functional MRI signals. A long short-term memory (LSTM) was used to extract the relevant temporal dynamics for classification and train the prediction model. Bootstrapping and 4-fold cross-validation were used to examine the significance of the models.\nFor the identification of AD patients and HC, we found that the supplementary motor area (SMA), posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), temporal pole, precuneus, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex showed significantly greater prediction accuracy than the chance level. For the identification of high and low responder to acupuncture treatment, we found that the lingual-parahippocampal-fusiform gyrus, SMA, frontal gyrus, PCC and precuneus, paracentral lobule, and primary motor and somatosensory cortex showed significantly greater prediction accuracy than the chance level.\nWe developed and evaluated a deep learning model-based neural biomarker that can distinguish between AD and HC as well as between AD patients who respond well and those who respond less to acupuncture. Using the intrinsic neurological abnormalities, it is possible to diagnose AD patients and provide personalized treatment regimens.", 
    "abstract": "High-amplitude co-activation patterns are sparsely present during resting-state fMRI but drive functional connectivity", 
    "abstract": "Mild traumatic brain injury is theorized to cause widespread functional changes to the brain. Resting-state fMRI may be able to measure functional connectivity changes after traumatic brain injury, but resting-state fMRI studies are heterogeneous, using numerous techniques to study ROIs across various resting-state networks.\nWe systematically reviewed the literature to ascertain whether adult patients who have experienced mild traumatic brain injury show consistent functional connectivity changes on resting-state -fMRI, compared with healthy patients.\nWe used 5 databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Central, Scopus, Web of Science).\nFive databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Central, Scopus, and Web of Science) were searched for research published since 2010. Search strategies used keywords of \"functional MR imaging\" and \"mild traumatic brain injury\" as well as related terms. All results were screened at the abstract and title levels by 4 reviewers according to predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. For full-text inclusion, each study was evaluated independently by 2 reviewers, with discordant screening settled by consensus.\nData regarding article characteristics, cohort demographics, fMRI scan parameters, data analysis processing software, atlas used, data characteristics, and statistical analysis information were extracted.\nAcross 66 studies, 80 areas were analyzed 239 times for at least 1 time point, most commonly using independent component analysis. The most analyzed areas and networks were the whole brain, the default mode network, and the salience network. Reported functional connectivity changes varied, though there may be a slight trend toward decreased whole-brain functional connectivity within 1 month of traumatic brain injury and there may be differences based on the time since injury.\nStudies of military, sports-related traumatic brain injury, and pediatric patients were excluded. Due to the high number of relevant studies and data heterogeneity, we could not be as granular in the analysis as we would have liked.\nReported functional connectivity changes varied, even within the same region and network, at least partially reflecting differences in technical parameters, preprocessing software, and analysis methods as well as probable differences in individual injury. There is a need for novel rs-fMRI techniques that better capture subject-specific functional connectivity changes.", 
    "abstract": "To examine hemodynamic and functional connectivity alterations and their association with neurocognitive and mental health indices in patients with chronic mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI).\nResting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) and neuropsychological assessment of 37 patients with chronic mTBI were performed. Intrinsic connectivity contrast (ICC) and time-shift analysis (TSA) of the rs-fMRI data allowed the assessment of regional hemodynamic and functional connectivity disturbances and their coupling (or uncoupling). Thirty-nine healthy age- and gender-matched participants were also examined.\nPatients with chronic mTBI displayed hypoconnectivity in bilateral hippocampi and parahippocampal gyri and increased connectivity in parietal areas (right angular gyrus and left superior parietal lobule (SPL)). Slower perfusion (hemodynamic lag) in the left anterior hippocampus was associated with higher self-reported symptoms of depression (r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.53, p\u2009=\u2009.0006) and anxiety (r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.484, p\u2009=\u2009.002), while faster perfusion (hemodynamic lead) in the left SPL was associated with lower semantic fluency (r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.474, p\u2009=\u2009.002). Finally, functional coupling (high connectivity and hemodynamic lead) in the right anterior cingulate cortex (ACC)) was associated with lower performance on attention and visuomotor coordination (r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.50, p\u2009=\u2009.001), while dysfunctional coupling (low connectivity and hemodynamic lag) in the left ventral posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) and right SPL was associated with lower scores on immediate passage memory (r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.52, p\u2009=\u2009.001; r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.53, p\u2009=\u2009.0006, respectively). Uncoupling in the right extrastriate visual cortex and posterior middle temporal gyrus was negatively associated with cognitive flexibility (r\u2009=\u2009\u2009-\u20090.50, p\u2009=\u2009.001).\nHemodynamic and functional connectivity differences, indicating neurovascular (un)coupling, may be linked to mental health and neurocognitive indices in patients with chronic mTBI.", 
    "abstract": "Despite its widespread use, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) has been criticized for low test-retest reliability. To improve reliability, researchers have recommended using extended scanning durations, increased sample size, and advanced brain connectivity techniques. However, longer scanning runs and larger sample sizes may come with practical challenges and burdens, especially in rare populations. Here we tested if an advanced brain connectivity technique, dynamic causal modeling (DCM), can improve reliability of fMRI effective connectivity (EC) metrics to acceptable levels without extremely long run durations or extremely large samples. Specifically, we employed DCM for EC analysis on rsfMRI data from the Human Connectome Project. To avoid bias, we assessed four distinct DCMs and gradually increased sample sizes in a randomized manner across ten permutations. We employed pseudo true positive and pseudo false positive rates to assess the efficacy of shorter run durations (3.6, 7.2, 10.8, 14.4 min) in replicating the outcomes of the longest scanning duration (28.8 min) when the sample size was fixed at the largest (n = 160 subjects). Similarly, we assessed the efficacy of smaller sample sizes (n = 10, 20, \u2026, 150 subjects) in replicating the outcomes of the largest sample (n = 160 subjects) when the scanning duration was fixed at the longest (28.8 min). Our results revealed that the pseudo false positive rate was below 0.05 for all the analyses. After the scanning duration reached 10.8 min, which yielded a pseudo true positive rate of 92%, further extensions in run time showed no improvements in pseudo true positive rate. Expanding the sample size led to enhanced pseudo true positive rate outcomes, with a plateau at n = 70 subjects for the targeted top one-half of the largest ECs in the reference sample, regardless of whether the longest run duration (28.8 min) or the viable run duration (10.8 min) was employed. Encouragingly, smaller sample sizes exhibited pseudo true positive rates of approximately 80% for n = 20, and 90% for n = 40 subjects. These data suggest that advanced DCM analysis may be a viable option to attain reliable metrics of EC when larger sample sizes or run times are not feasible.", 
    "abstract": "Resting state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) is a popular and widely used technique to explore the brain's functional organization and to examine if it is altered in neurological or mental disorders. The most common approach for its analysis targets the measurement of the synchronized fluctuations between brain regions, characterized as functional connectivity (FC), typically relying on pairwise correlations in activity across different brain regions. While hugely successful in exploring state- and disease-dependent network alterations, these statistical graph theory tools suffer from two key limitations. First, they discard useful information about the rich frequency content of the fMRI signal. The rich spectral information now achievable from advances in fast multiband acquisitions is consequently being under-utilized. Second, the analyzed FCs are phenomenological without a direct neurobiological underpinning in the underlying structures and processes in the brain. There does not currently exist a complete generative model framework for whole brain resting fMRI that is informed by its underlying biological basis in the structural connectome. Here we propose that a different approach can solve both challenges at once: the use of an appropriately realistic yet parsimonious biophysical signal generation model followed by graph spectral (i.e. eigen) decomposition. We call this model a Spectral Graph Model (SGM) for fMRI, using which we can not only quantify the structure-function relationship in individual subjects, but also condense the variable and individual-specific repertoire of fMRI signal's spectral and spatial features into a small number of biophysically-interpretable parameters. We expect this model-based inference of rs-fMRI that seamlessly integrates with structure can be used to examine state and trait characteristics of structure-function relations in a variety of brain disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies about anhedonia symptoms in bipolar depression (BD) ignored the unique role of gender on brain function. This study aims to explore the regional brain neuroimaging features of BD with anhedonia and the sex differences in these patients. The resting-fMRI by applying fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) method was estimated in 263 patients with BD (174 high anhedonia [HA], 89 low anhedonia [LA]) and 213 healthy controls. The effects of two different factors in patients with BD were analyzed using a 3 (group: HA, LA, HC) \u00d7 2 (sex: male, female) ANOVA. The fALFF values were higher in the HA group than in the LA group in the right medial cingulate gyrus and supplementary motor area. For the sex-by-group interaction, the fALFF values of the right hippocampus, left medial occipital gyrus, right insula, and bilateral medial cingulate gyrus were significantly higher in HA males than in LA males but not females. These results suggested that the pattern of high activation could be a marker of anhedonia symptoms in BD males, and the sex differences should be considered in future studies of BD with anhedonia symptoms.", 
    "abstract": "Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an immune-mediated and multi-systemic disease which may affect the nervous system, causing neuropsychiatric SLE (NPSLE). Recent neuroimaging studies have examined brain functional alterations in SLE. However, discrepant findings were reported. This meta-analysis aims to identify consistent resting-state functional abnormalities in SLE.\nPubMed and Web of Science were searched to identify candidate resting-state functional MRI studies assessing SLE. A voxel-based meta-analysis was performed using the anisotropic effect-size version of the seed-based d mapping (AES-SDM). The abnormal intrinsic functional patterns extracted from SDM were mapped onto the brain functional network atlas to determine brain abnormalities at a network level.\nTwelve studies evaluating fifteen datasets were included in this meta-analysis, comprising 572 SLE patients and 436 healthy controls (HCs). Compared with HCs, SLE patients showed increased brain activity in the bilateral hippocampus and right superior temporal gyrus, and decreased brain activity in the left superior frontal gyrus, left middle temporal gyrus, bilateral thalamus, left inferior frontal gyrus and right cerebellum. Mapping the abnormal patterns to the network atlas revealed the default mode network and the limbic system as core neural systems commonly affected in SLE.\nThe number of included studies is relatively small, with heterogeneous analytic methods and a risk of publication bias.\nBrain functional alterations in SLE are predominantly found in the default mode network and the limbic system. These findings uncovered a consistent pattern of resting-state functional network abnormalities in SLE which may serve as a potential objective neuroimaging biomarker.", 
    "abstract": "Unhealthy food compensation following exercise contributes to the failure of exercise for weight loss. Autonomous exercise motivation is a protective factor against exercise-induced unhealthy foods licensing (EUFL). However, the neural mechanism of exercise-specific autonomous motivation and how these neural correlates link to EUFL remain uncertain.\nThis study explored the resting-state brain activity (i.e., amplitude or fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF/fALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo)) and seed-based functional connectivity (rsFC) of autonomous exercise motivation among 223 (72.3% female) healthy young adults. Autonomous exercise motivation and EUFL were measured by self-report measurements.\nResults across resting-state indices and rsFC analysis show that autonomous exercise motivation was robustly associated with activity and connectivity within the cerebellum posterior lobe (PCB), middle frontal gyrus (MFG), and middle occipital gyrus (MOG). Specifically, the PCB acted as a hub, connecting the frontal and occipital lobes. Moreover, higher autonomous exercise motivation indirectly predicts reduced EUFL through enhanced activity in the MFG and connectivity of PCB-MOG.\nNeural substrate for enhanced conflict awareness and motor control may explain the protective effect of autonomous exercise motivation on post-exercise unhealthy eating. Enhancement of these functions could help regulate post-exercise eating and improve the effectiveness of exercise for weight loss.", 
    "abstract": "Subthreshold depression (StD)/subsyndromal depression refers to a threatening precursor to depression. Aerobic exercise is a promising self-supportive adjunctive intervention and an effective measure for StD. Our study utilizes regional homogeneity (ReHo) to investigate the impact of aerobic exercise on resting-state brain function.\nA total of 78 subjects, aged between 18 and 48 years, (StD group, \nThe principal observation reveals synchronous abnormalities in the right anterior cingulate gyrus of the brain in StD subjects compared to HCs at baseline, with these differences dissipating after the implementation of aerobic exercise. After completing the aerobic exercise program, the StD group exhibited a difference in the right middle cingulate gyrus, while the left supplementary motor area (SMA) was altered in the HC group.\nDisparities in neural synchronization are evident between HCs and StD subjects, and the implementation of aerobic exercise intervention can effectively mitigate these distinctions, leading to a significant reduction in depressive symptoms among StD subjects. The primary mechanism of StD symptoms may involve the inhibition of the anterior cingulate gyrus, while the effects of aerobic exercise may be related to the modulation of neural synchronization of emotional reflexes. The discovery of these fMRI evidence findings may offer novel strategies for early detection and intervention in cases of StD.", 
    "abstract": "Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) provides researchers and clinicians with a powerful tool to examine functional connectivity across large-scale brain networks, with ever-increasing applications to the study of neurological disorders, such as traumatic brain injury (TBI). While rsfMRI holds unparalleled promise in systems neurosciences, its acquisition and analytical methodology across research groups is variable, resulting in a literature that is challenging to integrate and interpret. The focus of this narrative review is to address the primary methodological issues including investigator decision points in the application of rsfMRI to study the consequences of TBI. As part of the ENIGMA Brain Injury working group, we have collaborated to identify a minimum set of recommendations that are designed to produce results that are reliable, harmonizable, and reproducible for the TBI imaging research community. Part one of this review provides the results of a literature search of current rsfMRI studies of TBI, highlighting key design considerations and data processing pipelines. Part two outlines seven data acquisition, processing, and analysis recommendations with the goal of maximizing study reliability and between-site comparability, while preserving investigator autonomy. Part three summarizes new directions and opportunities for future rsfMRI studies in TBI patients. The goal is to galvanize the TBI community to gain consensus for a set of rigorous and reproducible methods, and to increase analytical transparency and data sharing to address the reproducibility crisis in the field.", 
    "abstract": "We sought to use the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) method to investigate the changes in spontaneous brain activity in CSM patients and their relationships with clinical features.\nWe recruited 20 patients with CSM, and 20 healthy controls (HCs) matched for age, sex, and education status. The fALFF method was used to evaluate the altered spontaneous brain activities. The Pearson correlation analysis of fALFF and the clinical features were carried out.\nCompared with HC, CSM group showed increased fALFF values in the left middle frontal gyrus, inferior parietal lobule, and right angular gyrus. Decreased fALFF values were found in the right lingual gyrus, cuneus (P < 0.05). Pearson correlation analysis shows that the fALFF values of all CSM were positively correlated with JOA score in the right angular gyrus (r = 0.518, P < 0.05).\nCSM patients have abnormal fALFF distribution in multiple brain regions and might be an appealing alternative approach for further exploration of the pathological and neuropsychological states in CSM.", 
    "abstract": "The transition to menopause is associated with various physiological changes, including alterations in brain structure and function. However, menopause-related structural and functional changes are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was not only to compare the brain volume changes between premenopausal and postmenopausal women, but also to evaluate the functional connectivity between the targeted brain regions associated with structural atrophy in postmenopausal women. Each 21 premenopausal and postmenopausal women underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). T1-weighted MRI and resting-state functional MRI data were used to compare the brain volume and seed-based functional connectivity, respectively. In statistical analysis, multivariate analysis of variance, with age and whole brain volume as covariates, was used to evaluate surface areas and subcortical volumes between the two groups. Postmenopausal women showed significantly smaller cortical surface, especially in the left medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC), right superior temporal cortex, and right lateral orbitofrontal cortex, compared to premenopausal women (", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Investigating the functional interactions between different brain regions and revealing the transmission of information by computing brain connectivity have great potential and significance in the diagnosis of early Mild Cognitive Impairment (EMCI).\nThe Granger causality with Gate Recurrent Unit (GRU_GC) model is a suitable method that allows the detection of a nonlinear causal relationship and solves the limitation of fixed time lag, which cannot be detected by the classical Granger method. The model can transmit time series signals with any transmission delay length, and the time series can be screened and learned through the gate model.\nThe classification experiment of 89 EMCI and 73 neurologically healthy controls (HC) shows that the accuracy reached 87.88%. Compared with multivariate variables GC (MVGC) and Long Short-Term Memory-based GC (LSTM_GC), the GRU_GC significantly improved the estimation of brain connectivity communication. Constructing a difference network to explore the brain effective connectivity between EMCI and HC.\nThe GRU_GC can discover the abnormal brain regions, including the parahippocampal gyrus, the posterior cingulate gyrus. The method can be used in clinical applications as an effective brain connectivity analysis tool and provides auxiliary means for the medical diagnosis of EMCI.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies have provided evidence of structural and functional changes in the brains of patients with tension-type headache (TTH). However, investigations of functional connectivity alterations in TTH have been inconclusive. The present study aimed to investigate abnormal intrinsic functional connectivity patterns in patients with TTH through the voxel-wise degree centrality (DC) method as well as functional connectivity (FC) analysis. A total of 33 patients with TTH and 30 healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scanning and were enrolled in the final study. The voxel-wise DC method was performed to quantify abnormalities in the local functional connectivity hubs. Nodes with abnormal DC were used as seeds for further FC analysis to evaluate alterations in functional connectivity patterns. In addition, correlational analyses were performed between abnormal DC and FC values and clinical features. Compared with HCs, patients with TTH had higher DC values in the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG.L) and lower DC values in the left anterior cingulate and paracingulate gyri (ACG.L) (GRF, voxel-wise p\u2009<\u20090.05, cluster-wise p\u2009<\u20090.05, two-tailed). Seed-based FC analyses revealed that patients with TTH showed greater connections between ACG.L and the right cerebellum lobule IX (CR-IX.R), and smaller connections between ACG.L and ACG.L. The MTG.L showed increased FC with the ACG.L, and decreased FC with the right caudate nucleus (CAU.R) and left precuneus (PCUN.L) (GRF, voxel-wise p\u2009<\u20090.05, cluster-wise p\u2009<\u20090.05, two-tailed). Additionally, the DC value of the MTG.L was negatively correlated with the DASS-depression score (p\u2009=\u20090.046, r=-0.350). This preliminary study provides important insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of TTH.", 
    "abstract": "The previous studies have demonstrated that patients with Crohn's disease in remission (CD-R) have abnormal alterations in brain function. However, whether brain function changes in patients with Crohn's disease in activity (CD-A) and the relationship with CD-R are still unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether the different levels of disease activity may differentially affect the brain function and to find the brain functional biomarker distinguishing patients with different disease stages by measuring the amplitude of low frequency fluctuations (ALFF).\n121 patients with CD and 91 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited. The clinical and psychological assessment of participants were collected. The criteria for the disease activity were the Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) scores. CD-R refers to CD patients in remission which the CDAI score is less than 150. Conversely, CD-A refers to CD patients in activity which the CDAI score is \u2265150. The ALFF was compared among three groups by performing one-way analysis of variance, followed by a \nThere were widespread differences of ALFF values among the 3 groups, which included left frontal pole (FP_L), right supramarginal gyrus (SG_R), left angular gyrus (AG_L), right cingulate gyrus (CG_R), right intracalcarine cortex (IC_R), right parahippocampal gyrus (PG_R), right lingual gyrus (LG_R), right precuneous cortex (PC_R), left occipital fusiform gyrus (OFG_L). Significant brain regions showing the functional connections (FC) increased in FP_L, SG_R, PC_R and OFG_L between CD-A and HCs. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate had a negative correlation with the ALFF values in PC_R in the patients with CD. The phobic anxiety values had a negative correlation with the ALFF values in OFG_L. The psychoticism values had a negative correlation with ALFF values in the IC_R. And the hostility values had a positive correlation with the ALFF values in CG_R. Significant brain regions showing the FC increased in FP_L, SG_R, CG_R, PG_R, LG_R and OFG_L between CD-R and HCs. In binary logistic regression models, the LG_R (beta\u2009=\u20095.138, \nThe results indicated the significance of the altered brain activity in the different disease stages of CD. Therefore, these findings present a potential identify neuroimaging-based brain functional biomarker in CD. Additionally, the study provides a better understanding of the pathophysiology of CD.", 
    "abstract": "Aging is the basis of neurodegeneration and dementia that affects each endemic in the body.\u00a0Normal aging in the brain is associated with progressive slowdown and disruptions in various abilities such as motor ability, cognitive impairment, decreasing information processing speed, attention, and memory. With the aggravation of global aging, more research focuses on brain changes in the elderly adult. The graph theory, in combination with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), makes it possible to evaluate the brain network functional connectivity patterns in different conditions with brain modeling. We have evaluated the brain network communication model changes in three different age groups (including 8 to 15\u00a0years, 25 to 35\u00a0years, and 45 to 75\u00a0years) in lifespan pilot data from the human connectome project (HCP). Initially, Pearson correlation-based connectivity networks were calculated and thresholded. Then, network characteristics were compared between the three age groups by calculating the global and local graph measures. In the resting state brain network, we observed decreasing global efficiency and increasing transitivity with age. Also, brain regions, including the amygdala, putamen, hippocampus, precuneus, inferior temporal gyrus, anterior cingulate gyrus, and middle temporal gyrus, were selected as the most affected brain areas with age through statistical tests and machine learning methods. Using feature selection methods, including Fisher score and Kruskal-Wallis, we were able to classify three age groups using SVM, KNN, and decision-tree classifier. The best classification accuracy is in the combination of Fisher score and decision tree classifier obtained, which was 82.2%. Thus, by examining the measures of functional connectivity using graph theory, we will be able to explore normal age-related changes in the human brain, which can be used as a tool to monitor health with age.", 
    "abstract": "Reducing contributions from non-neuronal sources is a crucial step in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) connectivity analyses. Many viable strategies for denoising fMRI are used in the literature, and practitioners rely on denoising benchmarks for guidance in the selection of an appropriate choice for their study. However, fMRI denoising software is an ever-evolving field, and the benchmarks can quickly become obsolete as the techniques or implementations change. In this work, we present a denoising benchmark featuring a range of denoising strategies, datasets and evaluation metrics for connectivity analyses, based on the popular fMRIprep software. The benchmark prototypes an implementation of a reproducible framework, where the provided Jupyter Book enables readers to reproduce or modify the figures on the Neurolibre reproducible preprint server (https://neurolibre.org/). We demonstrate how such a reproducible benchmark can be used for continuous evaluation of research software, by comparing two versions of the fMRIprep. Most of the benchmark results were consistent with prior literature. Scrubbing, a technique which excludes time points with excessive motion, combined with global signal regression, is generally effective at noise removal. Scrubbing was generally effective, but is incompatible with statistical analyses requiring the continuous sampling of brain signal, for which a simpler strategy, using motion parameters, average activity in select brain compartments, and global signal regression, is preferred. Importantly, we found that certain denoising strategies behave inconsistently across datasets and/or versions of fMRIPrep, or had a different behavior than in previously published benchmarks. This work will hopefully provide useful guidelines for the fMRIprep users community, and highlight the importance of continuous evaluation of research methods.", 
    "abstract": "Schizophrenia, a multifaceted mental disorder characterized by disturbances in thought, perception, and emotion, has been extensively investigated through resting-state fMRI, uncovering changes in spontaneous brain activity among those affected. However, a bibliometric examination regarding publication trends in resting-state fMRI studies related to schizophrenia is lacking. This study obtained relevant publications from the Web of Science Core Collection spanning the period from 1998 to 2022. Data extracted from these publications included information on countries/regions, institutions, authors, journals, and keywords. The collected data underwent analysis and visualization using VOSviewer software. The primary analyses included examination of international and institutional collaborations, authorship patterns, co-citation analyses of authors and journals, as well as exploration of keyword co-occurrence and temporal trend networks. A total of 859 publications were retrieved, indicating an overall growth trend from 1998 to 2022. China and the United States emerged as the leading contributors in both publication outputs and citations, with Central South University and the University of New Mexico being identified as the most productive institutions. Vince D. Calhoun had the highest number of publications and citation counts, while Karl J. Friston was recognized as the most influential author based on co-citations. Key journals such as Neuroimage, Schizophrenia Research, Schizophrenia Bulletin, and Biological Psychiatry played pivotal roles in advancing this field. Recent popular keywords included support vector machine, antipsychotic medication, transcranial magnetic stimulation, and related terms. This study systematically synthesizes the historical development, current status, and future trends in resting-state fMRI research in schizophrenia, offering valuable insights for future research directions.", 
    "abstract": "Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is a common form of medically intractable epilepsy. Although seizures originate in mesial temporal structures, there are widespread abnormalities of gray and white matter beyond the temporal lobes that negatively impact functional networks and cognition. Previous studies have focused either on the global impact on functional networks, or on the functional correlates of specific cognitive abilities. Here, we use a two-pronged approach to evaluate the link between whole-brain functional connectivity (FC) anomalies to overall cognitive performance, and how such abnormal connectivity alters the fronto-parietal brain regions involved in working memory (WMem), a cognitive disability often reported by TLE patients. We evaluated 31 TLE patients and 35 healthy subjects through extensive cognitive testing, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI), and task-based fMRI using Sternberg's task to evaluate WMem. As a group, TLE patients displayed cognitive abnormalities across different domains, although considerable within-group variability was identified. TLE patients showed disruptions of functional networks between and within the default mode network (DMN) and task-positive networks (TPN) resulting in associations with cognitive performance. Furthermore, during the WMem task, TLE patients showed abnormal activity of fronto-parietal regions that were associated with other forms of memory, and alterations of seed-based connectivity analyses. Our results show that different degrees of abnormal functional brain activity and connectivity are related to the severity of disabilities across cognitive spheres. Differential co-activation patterns between patients and healthy subjects suggest potential compensatory mechanisms to preserve adequate cognitive performance.", 
    "abstract": "Emotional intelligence (EI) is one's ability to monitor one's own and other's emotions and the use of emotional information to enhance thought and action. Previous behavioral studies have shown that EI is separable into trait EI and ability EI, which are known to have distinct characteristics at the behavioral level. A relevant and unanswered question is whether both forms of EI have a dissociable neural basis. Previous studies have individually explored the neural underpinnings of trait EI and ability EI, but there has been no direct comparison of the neural mechanisms underlying these two types of emotional intelligence. The present study addresses this question by using resting-state fMRI to examine the correlational pattern between the regional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) of the brain and individuals' trait EI and ability EI scores. We found that trait EI scores were positively correlated with the ALFF in the bilateral superior temporal gyrus, and negatively correlated with the ALFF in the ventral medial prefrontal cortex. In contrast, ability EI scores were positively correlated with the ALFF in the insula. Taken together, these results provide preliminary evidence of dissociable neural substrates between trait EI and ability EI.", 
    "abstract": "The brain is a complex, dynamic organ that shows differences in the same subject at various periods. Understanding how brain activity changes across age as a function of the brain networks has been greatly abetted by fMRI. Canonical analysis consists of determining how alterations in connectivity patterns (CPs) of certain regions are affected. An alternative approach is taken here by not considering connectivity but rather features computed from recordings at the regions of interest (ROIs). Using machine learning (ML) we assess how neural signals are altered by and prospectively predictive of age and sex via a methodology that is novel in drawing upon pairwise classification across six decades of subjects' chronological ages. ML is used to answer the equally important questions of what properties of the computed features are most predictive as well as which brain networks are most affected by aging. It was found that there is decreased differentiation among the neural signals of older subjects that are separated in age by the same number of years as younger subjects. Furthermore, the burstiness of the signals change at different rates between males and females. The findings provide insight into brain aging via an ROI-based analysis, the consideration of several feature groups, and a novel classification-based ML pipeline. There is also a contribution to understanding the effects of data aggregated from different recording centers on the conclusions of fMRI studies.", 
    "abstract": "The complexity of brain signals may hold clues to understand brain-based disorders. Sample entropy, an index that captures the predictability of a signal, is a promising tool to measure signal complexity. However, measurement of sample entropy from fMRI signals has its challenges, and numerous questions regarding preprocessing and parameter selection require research to advance the potential impact of this method. For one example, entropy may be highly sensitive to the effects of motion, yet standard approaches to addressing motion (e.g., scrubbing) may be unsuitable for entropy measurement. For another, the parameters used to calculate entropy need to be defined by the properties of data being analyzed, an issue that has frequently been ignored in fMRI research. The current work sought to rigorously address these issues and to create methods that could be used to advance this field.\nWe developed and tested a novel windowing approach to select and concatenate (ignoring connecting volumes) low-motion windows in fMRI data to reduce the impact of motion on sample entropy estimates. We created utilities (implementing autoregressive models and a grid search function) to facilitate selection of the matching length \nWhen applying these optimized methods to the ABCD data (from the subset of individuals who had enough windows of continuous \"usable\" volumes), we found that the novel windowing procedure successfully mitigated the large inverse correlation between entropy values and head motion seen when using a standard approach. Furthermore, using the windowed approach, entropy values calculated early in the scan (runs 1 and 2) are largely reproducible when measured later in the scan (runs 3 and 4), although there is some regional variability in reproducibility.\nWe developed an optimized approach to measuring sample entropy that addresses concerns about motion and that can be applied across datasets through user-identified adaptations that allow the method to be tailored to the dataset at hand. We offer preliminary results regarding reproducibility. We also include recommendations for fMRI data acquisition to optimize sample entropy measurement and considerations for the field.", 
    "abstract": "Earlier neuroimaging investigations showed that abnormal brain activity in patients with alcohol use disorder (AUD) was frequency dependent. However, there is lacking of a comprehensive method to capture the amplitude of multi-frequency bands directly. Here, we used a new method, the power spectrum slope (PSS) to explore abnormal spontaneous activity of brain in patients with AUD.\nThirty-three AUD patients and 29 healthy controls (HCs) enrolled in this study. The coefficient b and the power-law slope b' were calculated and compared between two groups. We also used the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve to examine the ability of the PSS analysis to distinguish between AUD and HCs. We next examined the correlation between PSS difference in the brain areas and the severity of alcohol dependence.\nThirty AUD patients and 26 HCs were retained after head motion correction. The two metrics of PSS values increased in the left precentral gyrus in AUD patients. The area under the curve values of PSS differences in the specific brain area were respectively 0.836 and 0.844, with sensitivities of 86.7% and 83.3% and specificities of 73.1% and 76.9%. The Michigan Alcoholism Screening Test (MAST) and Alcohol drinking scale (ADS) scores were not significantly correlated with the PSS values in the specific brain area.\nAs a novel method, the PSS can well detect abnormal local brain activity in the AUD patients and may offer new insights for future fMRI studies.", 
    "abstract": "Psychosis (including symptoms of delusions, hallucinations, and disorganized conduct/speech) is a main feature of schizophrenia and is frequently present in other major psychiatric illnesses. Studies in individuals with first-episode (FEP) and early psychosis (EP) have the potential to interpret aberrant connectivity associated with psychosis during a period with minimal influence from medication and other confounds. The current study uses a data-driven whole-brain approach to examine patterns of aberrant functional network connectivity (FNC) in a multi-site dataset comprising resting-state functional magnetic resonance images (rs-fMRI) from 117 individuals with FEP or EP and 130 individuals without a psychiatric disorder, as controls. Accounting for age, sex, race, head motion, and multiple imaging sites, differences in FNC were identified between psychosis and control participants in cortical (namely the inferior frontal gyrus, superior medial frontal gyrus, postcentral gyrus, supplementary motor area, posterior cingulate cortex, and superior and middle temporal gyri), subcortical (the caudate, thalamus, subthalamus, and hippocampus), and cerebellar regions. The prominent pattern of reduced cerebellar connectivity in psychosis is especially noteworthy, as most studies focus on cortical and subcortical regions, neglecting the cerebellum. The dysconnectivity reported here may indicate disruptions in cortical-subcortical-cerebellar circuitry involved in rudimentary cognitive functions which may serve as reliable correlates of psychosis.", 
    "abstract": "To investigate changes in functional connectivity (FC) focusing on parietal operculum cortex 2 (OP2) in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) patients with residual dizziness (RD) after successful canalith repositioning procedure (CRP).\nHigh-resolution three-dimensional T1 and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) were performed on 55 healthy controls (HCs), 55 BPPV patients with RD, and 55 patients without RD after successful CRP. Seed-based (bilateral OP2) FC was calculated to investigate the changes in FC among the three groups. Additionally, we further explored the associations between abnormal FC and clinical symptoms.\nOne-way analysis of covariance showed significant FC differences among the three groups. Post-hoc analysis showed that patients with RD exhibited decreased FC between left OP2 and regions of left angular gyrus (AG), thalamus, precuneus, middle frontal gyrus (MFG), and right cerebellum posterior lobe (CPL) in comparison with HCs. In addition, compared with patients without RD, patients with RD showed decreased FC between left OP2 and regions of left MFG, AG, middle temporal gyrus, and right CPL. Moreover, in patients with RD, the FC between left thalamus and OP2 was negatively correlated with duration of RD, and the FC between left AG and OP2 was negatively correlated with duration of BPPV.\nBPPV patients with RD showed reduced FC between brain regions involved in vestibular processing and spatial cognition; These results suggested that BPPV patients with RD might have diminished central processing of vestibular information and impaired spatial cognition.", 
    "abstract": "Bipolar disorder (BD) and schizophrenia (SCZ) may exhibit functional abnormalities in several brain areas, including the medial temporal and prefrontal cortex and hippocampus; however, a less explored topic is how brain connectivity is linked to premorbid trauma experiences and clinical features in non-Caucasian samples of SCZ and BD.\nSixty-two individuals with SCZ (n = 20), BD (n = 21), and healthy controls (HC, n = 21) from indigenous and African ethnicity were submitted to clinical screening (Di-PAD), traumata experiences (ETISR-SF), cognitive and functional MRI assessment. The item psychosis/hallucinations in SCZ patients showed a negative correlation with the global efficiency (GE) in the right dorsal attention network. The items mania, irritable mood, and racing thoughts in the Di-PAD scale had a significant negative correlation with the GE in the parietal right default mode network.\nDifferences in the activation of specific networks were associated with earlier disease onset, history of physical abuse, and more severe psychotic and mood symptoms in SCZ and BD subjects of indigenous and black ethnicity. Findings provide further evidence on SZ and BD's brain connectivity disturbances, and their clinical significance, in non-Caucasian samples.", 
    "abstract": "Macrovascular biases have been a long-standing challenge for fMRI, limiting its ability to detect spatially specific neural activity. Recent experimental studies, including our own (Huck et al., 2023; Zhong et al., 2023), found substantial resting-state macrovascular BOLD fMRI contributions from large veins and arteries, extending into the perivascular tissue at 3 T and 7 T. The objective of this study is to demonstrate the feasibility of predicting, using a biophysical model, the experimental resting-state BOLD fluctuation amplitude (RSFA) and associated functional connectivity (FC) values at 3 Tesla. We investigated the feasibility of both 2D and 3D infinite-cylinder models as well as macrovascular anatomical networks (mVANs) derived from angiograms. Our results demonstrate that: 1) with the availability of mVANs, it is feasible to model macrovascular BOLD FC using both the mVAN-based model and 3D infinite-cylinder models, though the former performed better; 2) biophysical modelling can accurately predict the BOLD pairwise correlation near to large veins (with R ", 
    "abstract": "Limited study has investigated the influence of parent-child interaction on brain functional alterations and development outcomes of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) children. This pilot study aimed to explore the relationship between parent-child interaction, brain functional activities and development outcomes of ASD children.\nand Procedures: 653 ASD with an average age of 41.06\u00a0\u00b1\u00a010.88 months and 102 typically developmental (TD) children with an average age of 44.35\u00a0\u00b1\u00a018.39 months were enrolled in this study, of whom 155 ASD completed brain rs-fMRI scans. The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) measured using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data reflect local brain function. The parent-child interaction was assessed by the Chinese Parent-child Interaction Scale (CPCIS). Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) and developmental quotient (DQ) indicated development outcomes.\nTotal CPCIS score was negatively correlated with CARS total score, and positively correlated with DQ. The frequency of parent-child interaction was negatively correlated with ALFF values in the left median cingulate and paracingulate gyri (DCG.L) and ReHo values in the right superior frontal gyrus, medial (SFGmed.R)(P\u00a0<\u00a00.05, FDR correction). ALFF values in the DCG.L and ReHo values in the SFGmed.R play complete mediating roles in the relationship between parent-child interaction and performance DQ.\nThis study suggest that parent-child interaction has an impact on autistic characteristics and DQ of ASD children. Local brain regions with functional abnormalities in the DCG.L and SFGmed.R may be a crucial factors affecting the performance development of ASD children with reduced parent-child interaction.", 
    "abstract": "Dynamic functional connectivity (FC) analyses have provided ample information on the disturbances of global functional brain organization in patients with schizophrenia. However, our understanding about the dynamics of local FC in never-treated first episode schizophrenia (FES) patients is still rudimentary. Dynamic Regional Phase Synchrony (DRePS), a newly developed dynamic local FC analysis method that could quantify the instantaneous phase synchronization in local spatial scale, overcomes the limitations of commonly used sliding-window methods. The current study performed a comprehensive examination on both the static and dynamic local FC alterations in FES patients (N = 74) from healthy controls (HCs, N = 41) with resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging using DRePS, and compared the static local FC metrics derived from DRePS with those calculated from two commonly used regional homogeneity (ReHo) analysis methods that are defined based on Kendall's coefficient of concordance (KCC-ReHo) and frequency coherence (Cohe-ReHo). Symptom severities of FES patients were assessed with a set of clinical scales. Cognitive functions of FES patients and HCs were assessed with the MATRICS consensus cognitive battery. Group-level analysis revealed that compared with HCs, FES patients exhibited increased static local FC in right superior, middle temporal gyri, hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, putamen, and bilateral caudate nucleus. Nonetheless, the dynamic local FC metrics did not show any significant differences between the two groups. The associations between all local FC metrics and clinical characteristics manifested scores were explored using a relevance vector machine. Results showed that the Global Assessment of Functioning score highest in past year and the Brief Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised task score were statistically significantly predicted by a combination of all static and dynamic features. The diagnostic abilities of different local FC metrics and their combinations were compared by the classification performance of linear support vector machine classifiers. Results showed that the inclusion of zero crossing ratio of DRePS, one of the dynamic local FC metrics, alongside static local FC metrics improved the classification accuracy compared to using static metrics alone. These results enrich our understanding of the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying schizophrenia, and demonstrate the potential of developing diagnostic biomarker for schizophrenia based on DRePS.", 
    "abstract": "A relationship between migraine without aura (MO) and patent foramen ovale (PFO) has been observed, but the neural basis underlying this relationship remains elusive. Utilizing independent component analysis via functional magnetic resonance imaging, we examined functional connectivity (FC) within and across networks in 146 patients with MO (75 patients with and 71 patients without PFO) and 70 healthy controls (35 patients each with and without PFO) to elucidate the individual effects of MO and PFO, as well as their interaction, on brain functional networks. The main effect of PFO manifested exclusively in the FC among the visual, auditory, default mode, dorsal attention and salience networks. Furthermore, the interaction effect between MO and PFO was discerned in brain clusters of the left frontoparietal network and lingual gyrus network, as well as the internetwork FC between the left frontoparietal network and the default mode network (DMN), the occipital pole and medial visual networks, and the dorsal attention and salience networks. Our findings suggest that the presence of a PFO shunt in patients with MO is accompanied by various FC changes within and across networks. These changes elucidate the intricate mechanisms linked to PFO-associated migraines and provide a basis for identifying novel noninvasive biomarkers.", 
    "abstract": "Physiological nuisance contributions by cardiac and respiratory signals have a significant impact on resting-state fMRI data quality. As these physiological signals are often not recorded, data-driven denoising methods are commonly used to estimate and remove physiological noise from fMRI data. To investigate the efficacy of these denoising methods, one of the first steps is to accurately capture the cardiac and respiratory signals, which requires acquiring fMRI data with high temporal resolution.\nIn this study, we used such high-temporal resolution fMRI data to evaluate the effectiveness of several data-driven denoising methods, including global-signal regression (GSR), white matter and cerebrospinal fluid regression (WM-CSF), anatomical (aCompCor) and temporal CompCor (tCompCor), ICA-AROMA. Our analysis focused on the consequence of changes in low-frequency, cardiac and respiratory signal power, as well as age-related differences in terms of functional connectivity (fcMRI).\nOur results confirm that the ICA-AROMA and GSR removed the most physiological noise but also more low-frequency signals. These methods are also associated with substantially lower age-related fcMRI differences. On the other hand, aCompCor and tCompCor appear to be better at removing high-frequency physiological signals but not low-frequency signal power. These methods are also associated with relatively higher age-related fcMRI differences, whether driven by neuronal signal or residual artifact. These results were reproduced in data downsampled to represent conventional fMRI sampling frequency. Lastly, methods differ in performance depending on the age group.\nWhile this study cautions direct comparisons of fcMRI results based on different denoising methods in the study of aging, it also enhances the understanding of different denoising methods in broader fcMRI applications.", 
    "abstract": "Predicting suicide is a pressing issue among older adults; however, predicting its risk is difficult. Capitalizing on the recent development of machine learning, considerable progress has been made in predicting complex behavior such as suicide. As depression remained the strongest risk for suicide, we aimed to apply deep learning algorithms to identify suicidality in a group with late-life depression (LLD).\nWe enrolled 83 patients with LLD, 35 of which were non-suicidal and 48 were suicidal, including 26 with only suicidal ideation and 22 with past suicide attempts, for resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Cross-sample entropy (CSE) analysis was conducted to examine the complexity of MRI signals among brain regions. Three-dimensional (3D) convolutional neural networks (CNNs) were used, and the classification accuracy in each brain region was averaged to predict suicidality after sixfold cross-validation.\nWe found brain regions with a mean accuracy above 75% to predict suicidality located mostly in default mode, fronto-parietal, and cingulo-opercular resting-state networks. The models with right amygdala and left caudate provided the most reliable accuracy in all cross-validation folds, indicating their neurobiological importance in late-life suicide.\nCombining CSE analysis and the 3D CNN, several brain regions were found to be associated with suicidality.", 
    "abstract": "Delay discounting, the decline in the subjective value of future rewards over time, has traditionally been understood through a tripartite neural network model, comprising the valuation, cognitive control, and prospection networks. To investigate the applicability of this model in a resting-state context, we employed a monetary choice questionnaire to quantify delay discounting and utilized resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) to explore the role of spontaneous brain activity, specifically regional homogeneity (ReHo), in influencing individual differences in delay discounting across a large cohort (", 
    "abstract": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been characterized by impairments among distributed functional brain networks, e.g., the frontoparietal network (FPN), default mode network (DMN), reward and motivation-related circuits (RMN), and salience network (SAL). In the current study, we evaluated the complexity and functional connectivity (FC) of resting state fMRI (rsfMRI) in pre-adolescents with the behavioral symptoms of ADHD, for pathology-relevant networks. We leveraged data from the Adolescent Brain and Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study. The final study sample included 63 children demonstrating the behavioral features of ADHD and 92 healthy control children matched on age, sex, and pubertal development status. For selected regions in the relevant networks, ANCOVA compared multiscale entropy (MSE) and FC between the groups. Finally, differences in the association between MSE and FC were evaluated. We found significantly reduced MSE along with increased FC within the FPN of pre-adolescents demonstrating the behavior symptoms of ADHD compared to matched healthy controls. Significant partial correlations between MSE and FC emerged in the FPN and RMN in the healthy controls however the association was absent in the participants demonstrating the behavior symptoms of ADHD. The current findings of complexity and FC in ADHD pathology support hypotheses of altered function of inhibitory control networks in ADHD.", 
    "abstract": "The World Health Organization has reported that approximately 300 million individuals suffer from the mood disorder known as MDD. Non-invasive measurement techniques have been utilized to reveal the mechanism of MDD, with rsfMRI being the predominant method. The previous functional connectivity and energy landscape studies have shown the difference in the coactivation patterns between MDD and HCs. However, these studies did not consider oscillatory temporal dynamics.\nIn this study, the dynamic mode decomposition, a method to compute a set of coherent spatial patterns associated with the oscillation frequency and temporal decay rate, was employed to investigate the alteration of the occurrence of dynamic modes between MDD and HCs. Specifically, The BOLD signals of each subject were transformed into dynamic modes representing coherent spatial patterns and discrete-time eigenvalues to capture temporal variations using dynamic mode decomposition. All the dynamic modes were disentangled into a two-dimensional manifold using t-SNE. Density estimation and density ratio estimation were applied to the two-dimensional manifolds after the two-dimensional manifold was split based on HCs and MDD.\nThe dynamic modes that uniquely emerged in the MDD were not observed. Instead, we have found some dynamic modes that have shown increased or reduced occurrence in MDD compared with HCs. The reduced dynamic modes were associated with the visual and saliency networks while the increased dynamic modes were associated with the default mode and sensory-motor networks.\nTo the best of our knowledge, this study showed initial evidence of the alteration of occurrence of the dynamic modes between MDD and HCs. To deepen understanding of how the alteration of the dynamic modes emerges from the structure, it is vital to investigate the relationship between the dynamic modes, cortical thickness, and surface areas.", 
    "abstract": "Deafness, as a profound manifestation of sensory deprivation, prompts a cascade of intricate cerebral adaptations. In this study, involving 35 deaf individuals and 35 hearing controls, we utilized resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) to delve into the depths of functional connectivity nuances distinguishing deaf individuals from their hearing counterparts. Leading our analytical approach was the application of multi-voxel pattern analysis (fc-MVPA). This advanced method provided a refined perspective, revealing amplified neural connectivity within the deaf population. Notably, regions such as the left postcentral somatosensory association cortex, the anterior and posterior corridors of the left superior temporal gyrus (STG), and the left mid-temporal lobe were identified as hotspots of heightened connectivity. Further, fc-MVPA shed light on intricate interaction effects, which became more pronounced when examining variables such as the duration of auditory deprivation and the extent of sign language exposure. These interactions were particularly evident in the premotor and left frontal mid-orbital regions. Complementing this, seed-based connectivity assessments illuminated pronounced coupling dynamics within the left STG spectrum. Concurrently, local correlation (LCOR) value analysis in the deaf group revealed significant shifts in the right superior STG and bilateral precuneus. In addition, amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) evaluations indicated modulations in the bilateral mid cingulum and left superior mid frontal gyrus. This comprehensive, fc-MVPA-driven exploration uncovers the multifaceted functional adaptations resulting from deafness, highlighting the profound plasticity of the human brain and its potential implications for targeted rehabilitative strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Existing neuroimaging studies of psychotic and mood disorders have reported brain activation differences (first-order properties) and altered pairwise correlation-based functional connectivity (second-order properties). However, both approaches have certain limitations that can be overcome by integrating them in a pairwise maximum entropy model (MEM) that better represents a comprehensive picture of fMRI signal patterns and provides a system-wide summary measure called energy. This study examines the applicability of individual-level MEM for psychiatry and identifies image-derived model coefficients related to model parameters.\nMEMs are fit to resting state fMRI data from each individual with schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder, bipolar disorder, and major depression (n=132) and demographically matched healthy controls (n=132) from the UK Biobank to different subsets of the default mode network (DMN) regions.\nThe model satisfactorily explained observed brain energy state occurrence probabilities across all participants, and model parameters were significantly correlated with image-derived coefficients for all groups. Within clinical groups, averaged energy level distributions were higher in schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder but lower in bipolar disorder compared to controls for both bilateral and unilateral DMN. Major depression energy distributions were higher compared to controls only in the right hemisphere DMN.\nDiagnostically distinct energy states suggest that probability distributions of temporal changes in synchronously active nodes may underlie each diagnostic entity. Subject-specific MEMs allow for factoring in the individual variations compared to traditional group-level inferences, offering an improved measure of biologically meaningful correlates of brain activity that may have potential clinical utility.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to systematically investigate the changes in cerebellar neural activity and cerebellar-cortical functional connectivity (FC) in patients with degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).\nIn this study, we collected clinical data and resting-state fMRI data from 54 DCM patients and 50 healthy controls (HCs). We analyzed voxel-wise regional fMRI metrics, including amplitude of low frequency fluctuation\u00a0(ALFF), fractional ALFF, regional homogeneity, functional connectivity density, and voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity. In analysis 1, we examined the differences in regional fMRI metrics within the cerebellum between the DCM patient group and the healthy control group, as well as their correlation with preoperative neurological status and prognosis. In analysis 2, we investigated cerebellar-cortical functional connectivity differences between the two groups and their correlation with preoperative neurological status and prognosis. Lastly, in analysis 3, we explored the internetwork connectivity between the 'cerebellar-SMN' (sensorimotor\u00a0network) system, examined the between-group differences, and investigated its correlation with preoperative neurological status and prognosis.\n(1) Relative to HCs, DCM patients exhibited functional alterations in wide-spread cerebellar regions; (2) DCM patients exhibited altered cerebellar-cortical FC which was associated with the preoperative neurological status and prognosis; (3) DCM patients exhibited altered internetwork connectivity between 'cerebellar-SMN' system which was associated with duration of symptom.\nWide-spread cerebellar functional alterations occur in DCM pathogenesis and the deficits in cerebellar-SMN functional connectivity may be beneficial in future studies for predicting surgical outcomes in patients with DCM.", 
    "abstract": "To investigate pain hypervigilance in individuals suffering from chronic neck and shoulder pain (CNSP) and its underlying brain mechanism.\nThe evaluation of pain vigilance was conducted through the utilization of pain vigilance and awareness questionnaires. Voxel-wise regional homogeneity (ReHo) from 60 CNSP patients and 60 healthy controls (HCs) using resting-state fMRI data. Voxel-wise two-sample T-test was conducted to reveal the ReHo variations between CNSP and HC. Correlation analyses were utilized to reveal the connection between brain abnormalities and medical measurements. Furthermore, a mediation analysis was conducted to elucidate the pathway-linking changes in brain function with medical measurements.\nOur present study revealed three main findings. Firstly, patients with CSNP demonstrated a heightened vigilance of pain in comparison to healthy adults, a common occurrence among individuals with chronic pain conditions. Secondly, we observed brain abnormalities in various brain regions in CSNP patients, and these alterations were associated with the extent of pain vigilance. Lastly, the pain hypervigilance impact on the severity of pain was found to be controlled by regional neural activity in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in subjects with CSNP.\nOur findings suggested that long-term repetitive nociceptive input caused by chronic pain further aggravates the pain intensity by impairing the vigilance-related pain processing within the anterior cingulate cortex in CNSP patients.", 
    "abstract": "Epilepsy is a chronic neurologic disorder characterized by abnormal functioning of brain networks, making it a complex research topic. Recent advancements in neuroimaging technology offer an effective approach to unraveling the intricacies of the human brain. Within different types of epilepsy, there is growing recognition regarding ongoing changes in the default mode network (DMN). However, little is known about the shared and distinct alterations of static functional connectivity (sFC) and dynamic functional connectivity (dFC) in DMN among epileptic subtypes, especially in children with epilepsy.\nHere, 110 children with epilepsy at a single center, including idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE), frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE), temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), and parietal lobe epilepsy (PLE), as well as 84 healthy controls (HC) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan. We investigated both sFC and dFC between groups of the DMN.\nDecreased static and dynamic connectivity within the DMN subsystem were shared by all subtypes. In each epilepsy subtype, children with epilepsy displayed significant and distinct patterns of DMN connectivity compared to the control group: the IGE group showed reduced interhemispheric connectivity, the FLE group consistently demonstrated disturbances in frontal region connectivity, the TLE group exhibited significant disruptions in hippocampal connectivity, and the PLE group displayed a notable decrease in parietal-temporal connectivity within the DMN. Some state-specific FC disruptions (decreased dFC) were observed in each epilepsy subtype that cannot detect by sFC. To determine their uniqueness within specific subtypes, bootstrapping methods were employed and found the significant results (IGE: between PCC and bilateral precuneus, FLE: between right middle frontal gyrus and bilateral middle temporal gyrus, TLE: between left Hippocampus and right fusiform, PLE: between left angular and cingulate cortex). Furthermore, only children with IGE exhibited dynamic features associated with clinical variables.\nOur findings highlight both shared and distinct FC alterations within the DMN in children with different types of epilepsy. Furthermore, our work provides a novel perspective on the functional alterations in the DMN of pediatric patients, suggesting that combined sFC and dFC analysis can provide valuable insights for deepening our understanding of the neuronal mechanism underlying epilepsy in children.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to investigate the potential therapeutic effects of cerebellar transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on balance and limb motor impairments in stroke patients. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials was conducted to assess the effects of cerebellar TMS on balance and motor impairments in stroke patients. Additionally, an activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis was performed on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies to compare spontaneous neural activity differences between stroke patients and healthy controls using measures including the amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF), fractional ALFF (fALFF), and regional homogeneity (ReHo). The analysis included 10 cerebellar TMS studies and 18 fMRI studies. Cerebellar TMS treatment demonstrated significant improvements in the Berg Balance Scale score (p\u2009<\u20090.0001) and the Fugl-Meyer Assessment lower extremity score (p\u2009<\u20090.0001) compared to the control group in stroke patients. Additionally, spontaneous neural activity alterations were identified in motor-related regions after stroke, including the precentral gyrus, putamen, thalamus, and paracentral lobule. Cerebellar TMS shows promise as a therapeutic intervention to enhance balance and lower limb motor function in stroke patients. It is easy for clinical application and addresses the limitations of insufficient direct stimulation depth on the leg area of the cortex. However, further research combining neuroimaging outcomes with clinical measurements is necessary to validate these findings.", 
    "abstract": "We evaluated whether integration of expert guidance on seizure onset zone (SOZ) identification from resting state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) connectomics combined with deep learning (DL) techniques enhances the SOZ delineation in patients with refractory epilepsy (RE), compared to utilizing DL alone. Rs-fMRI was collected from 52 children with RE who had subsequently undergone ic-EEG and then, if indicated, surgery for seizure control (", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive dysfunctions and functional brain modifications are among the side effects reported by breast cancer patients that persist beyond the chemotherapy. This paper aims at synthesizing the evidence on cognitive and functional brain changes and their associations in breast cancer patients treated with chemotherapy. A systematic literature search was performed using PubMed, Ovid MEDLINE, Scopus, and Embase up to July 2022. Eligible studies evaluated adult women with breast cancer treated with systemic chemotherapy, that performed cognitive assessment and resting-state functional MRI. Methodological quality was assessed. Sixteen studies were included, with a total of 1054 female participants. All studies reported alterations mainly concerned the fronto-parieto-temporal system and specifically involved the disruption of the DMN. Consistent with these findings, BCPs showed changes in cognitive performance reporting dysfunctions in executive ability, memory, and attention. However, not all the studies found a significant association between functional brain alterations and cognitive dysfunction. Some limitations including lack of sample homogeneity and different methodological approaches were reported. This work highlighted the presence of cognitive dysfunctions and functional brain alteration in breast cancer patients treated with chemotherapy. This allows a greater awareness of the side effects, promoting better clinical management. However, further research is needed to investigate the cause-effect relationship between cognitive and functional alterations.\nA PROSPERO-registered systematic review identified 16 studies evaluating functional brain metrics and cognition during resting-state fMRI following chemotherapy in breast cancer patients.Cognitive performance, evaluated with neuropsychological tests or self-report tools, generally decreased after chemotherapy treatment.Alterations have been found in functional connectivity and brain activity, mainly related to the default mode network (DMN).Correlations among cognitive and functional brain changes were not univocally found.", 
    "abstract": "Cortical parcellation has long been a cornerstone in the field of neuroscience, enabling the cerebral cortex to be partitioned into distinct, non-overlapping regions that facilitate the interpretation and comparison of complex neuroscientific data. In recent years, these parcellations have frequently been based on the use of resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) data. In parallel, methods such as independent components analysis have long been used to identify large-scale functional networks with significant spatial overlap between networks. Despite the fact that both forms of decomposition make use of the same spontaneous brain activity measured with rsfMRI, a gap persists in establishing a clear relationship between disjoint cortical parcellations and brain-wide networks. To address this, we introduce a novel parcellation framework that integrates NASCAR, a three-dimensional tensor decomposition method that identifies a series of functional brain networks, with state-of-the-art graph representation learning to produce cortical parcellations that represent near-homogeneous functional regions that are consistent with these brain networks. Further, through the use of the tensor decomposition, we avoid the limitations of traditional approaches that assume statistical independence or orthogonality in defining the underlying networks. Our findings demonstrate that these parcellations are comparable or superior to established atlases in terms of homogeneity of the functional connectivity across parcels, task contrast alignment, and architectonic map alignment. Our methodological pipeline is highly automated, allowing for rapid adaptation to new datasets and the generation of custom parcellations in just minutes, a significant advancement over methods that require extensive manual input. We describe this integrated approach, which we refer to as ", 
    "abstract": "American football has become the focus of numerous studies highlighting a growing concern that cumulative exposure to repetitive, sports-related head acceleration events (HAEs) may have negative consequences for brain health, even in the absence of a diagnosed concussion. In this longitudinal study, brain functional connectivity was analyzed in a cohort of high school American football athletes over a single play season and compared against participants in non-collision high school sports. Football athletes underwent four resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging sessions: once before (pre-season), twice during (in-season), and once 34-80\u00a0days after the contact activities play season ended (post-season). For each imaging session, functional connectomes (FCs) were computed for each athlete and compared across sessions using a metric reflecting the (self) similarity between two FCs. HAEs were monitored during all practices and games throughout the season using head-mounted sensors. Relative to the pre-season scan session, football athletes exhibited decreased FC self-similarity at the later in-season session, with apparent recovery of self-similarity by the time of the post-season session. In addition, both within and post-season self-similarity was correlated with cumulative exposure to head acceleration events. These results suggest that repetitive exposure to HAEs produces alterations in functional brain connectivity and highlight the necessity of collision-free recovery periods for football athletes.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) is a commonly used functional neuroimaging technique to investigate the functional brain networks. However, rs-fMRI data are often contaminated with noise and artifacts that adversely affect the results of rs-fMRI studies. Several machine/deep learning methods have achieved impressive performance to automatically regress the noise-related components decomposed from rs-fMRI data, which are expressed as the pairs of a spatial map and its associated time series. However, most of the previous methods individually analyze each modality of the noise-related components and simply aggregate the decision-level information (or knowledge) extracted from each modality to make a final decision. Moreover, these approaches consider only the limited modalities making it difficult to explore class-discriminative spectral information of noise-related components. To overcome these limitations, we propose a unified deep attentive spatio-spectral-temporal feature fusion framework. We first adopt a learnable wavelet transform module at the input-level of the framework to elaborately explore the spectral information in subsequent processes. We then construct a feature-level multi-modality fusion module to efficiently exchange the information from multi-modality inputs in the feature space. Finally, we design confidence-based voting strategies for decision-level fusion at the end of the framework to make a robust final decision. In our experiments, the proposed method achieved remarkable performance for noise-related component detection on various rs-fMRI datasets.", 
    "abstract": "The resting-state functional connectome has not been extensively investigated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) spectrum disease, in particular in relationship with patients' genetic status.\nHere we studied the network-to-network connectivity of 19 ALS patients carrying the C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion (C9orf72+), 19 ALS patients not affected by C9orf72 mutation (C9orf72-), and 19 ALS-mimic patients (ALSm) well-matched for demographic and clinical variables.\nWhen compared with ALSm, we observed greater connectivity of the default mode and frontoparietal networks with the visual network for C9orf72+ patients (P\u2009=\u20090.001). Moreover, the whole-connectome showed greater node degree (P\u2009<\u20090.001), while sensorimotor cortices resulted isolated in C9orf72+.\nOur results suggest a crucial involvement of extra-motor functions in ALS spectrum disease. In particular, alterations of the visual cortex may have a pathogenic role in C9orf72-related ALS. The prominent feature of these patients would be increased visual system connectivity with the networks responsible of the functional balance between internal and external attention.", 
    "abstract": "Post-stroke fatigue (PSF) was a common complication after stroke. This study aimed to explore the neuroimaging mechanism of PSF, which was rarely studied.\nPatients with the first episode of ischemic stroke were recruited from the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University between March 2021 and December 2022. The fatigue severity scale (FSS) was used to assess fatigue symptoms. PSF was diagnosed by a neurologist based on the FSS score and PSF diagnostic criteria. All the patients were scanned by resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI). Precuneus, the posterior node of default-mode network (pDMN), was related to fatigue. Therefore, imaging data were further analyzed by the seed-based resting-state functional connectivity (FC) approach, with the left (PCUN.L) and right precuneus (PCUN.R) being the seeds.\nA total of 70 patients with acute ischemic stroke were finally recruited, comprising 40 patients with PSF and 30 patients without PSF. Both the PCUN.L and PCUN.R seeds (pDMN) exhibited decreased FC with the prefrontal lobes located at the anterior part of DMN (aDMN), and the FC values were negatively correlated with FSS scores (both p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). These two seeds also exhibited increased FC with the right insula, and the FC values were positively correlated with FSS scores (both p\u00a0<\u00a00.05).\nThe abnormal FC between the aDMN and pDMN was associated with PSF. Besides, the insula, related to interoception, might also play an important role in PSF.", 
    "abstract": "It has been proposed that a continuum of specificity exists between episodic and semantic autobiographical memory. Personal semantics have been theorized to situate intermediately on this continuum, with more \"experience-near\" personal semantics (enPS) closer to the episodic end. We used individual differences in behavior as a model to investigate brain networks associated with the access to episodic autobiographical (EAM) and enPS information, assessing the relation between performance in the EAM and enPS conditions of the Autobiographical Fluency Task (AFT) and intrinsic brain connectivity. Results of an intrinsic connectivity contrast analysis showed that the global connectivity of two clusters in the left and right posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) was predicted by performance in the enPS conditions. Moreover, enPS scores predicted the connectivity strength of the right PCC with the bilateral anterior hippocampus (aHC), anterior middle temporal gyrus (aMTG) and medial orbitofrontal cortex, and the left aMTG and PCC. enPS scores also predicted the connectivity strength of the left PCC with the bilateral HC and MTG. The network highlighted involves parts of the core and of the dorsal medial subsystems of the Default Mode Network, in line with the proposal that enPS represents an intermediate entity between episodic and semantic memory.", 
    "abstract": "The selfish brain mechanism proposes that in some patients with impaired cerebral blood flow (CBF) or cerebrovascular function, hypertension may develop as a compensatory mechanism that aims to maintain CBF by increasing systemic blood pressure through an increase in cardiovascular sympathetic tone. The amplitude of low frequency fluctuations (ALFF) in the resting state blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional MRI signal has been previously posited as an index of cerebrovascular reactivity. We investigated whether regional fractional ALFF (fALFF) differs between 2054 hypertensives and 1724 normotensives using data from the UK Biobank dataset. Our primary hypothesis was that cerebrovascular function in the medulla and other regions involved in sympathetic regulation differs between hypertensives and normotensives, and that this is reflected by regional variations in fALFF. There is a significant regional variation in fALFF (F(14) =1126.17, ", 
    "abstract": "Prior MRI studies on vestibular migraine (VM) have revealed abnormalities in static regional intrinsic brain activity (iBA) and dynamic functional connectivity between brain regions or networks. However, the temporal variation and concordance of regional iBA measures remain to be explored.\n57 VM patients during the interictal period were compared to 88 healthy controls (HC) in this resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. The dynamics and concordance of regional iBA indices, including amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo), were examined by utilizing sliding time-window analysis. Partial correlation analyses were performed between clinical parameters and resting-state fMRI indices in brain areas showing significant group differences.\nThe VM group showed increased ALFF and ReHo dynamics, as well as increased temporal concordance between ALFF and ReHo in the bilateral paracentral lobule and supplementary motor area relative to the HC group. We also found decreased ReHo dynamics in the right temporal pole, and decreased ALFF dynamics in the right cerebellum posterior lobe, bilateral angular gyrus and middle occipital gyrus (MOG) in the VM group compared with the HC group. Moreover, a positive correlation was observed between ALFF dynamics in the left MOG and vertigo disease duration across all VM patients.\nTemporal dynamics and concordance of regional iBA indices were altered in the motor cortex, cerebellum, occipital and temporoparietal cortex, which may contribute to disrupted multisensory processing and vestibular control in patients with VM. ALFF dynamics in the left MOG may be useful biomarker for evaluating vertigo burden in this disorder.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state (rs) fMRI has been shown to be useful for preoperative mapping of functional areas in patients with brain tumors and epilepsy. However, its lack of standardization limits its widespread use and hinders multicenter collaboration. The American Society of Functional Neuroradiology, American Society of Pediatric Neuroradiology, and the American Society of Neuroradiology Functional and Diffusion MR Imaging Study Group recommend specific rs-fMRI acquisition approaches and preprocessing steps that will further support rs-fMRI for future clinical use. A task force with expertise in fMRI from multiple institutions provided recommendations on the rs-fMRI steps needed for mapping of language, motor, and visual areas in adult and pediatric patients with brain tumor and epilepsy. These were based on an extensive literature review and expert consensus.Following rs-fMRI acquisition parameters are recommended: minimum 6-minute acquisition time; scan with eyes open with fixation; obtain rs-fMRI before both task-based fMRI and contrast administration; temporal resolution\u2009of \u22642\u2009seconds; scanner field strength of 3T or higher. The following rs-fMRI preprocessing steps and parameters are recommended: motion correction (seed-based correlation analysis [SBC], independent component analysis [ICA]); despiking (SBC); volume censoring (SBC, ICA); nuisance regression of CSF and white matter signals (SBC); head motion regression (SBC, ICA); bandpass filtering (SBC, ICA); and spatial smoothing with a kernel size that is twice the effective voxel size (SBC, ICA).The consensus recommendations put forth for rs-fMRI acquisition and preprocessing steps will aid in standardization of practice and guide rs-fMRI program development across institutions. Standardized rs-fMRI protocols and processing pipelines are essential for multicenter trials and to implement rs-fMRI as part of standard clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (L-DLPFC) is commonly used for the clinical treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). The neuroimaging biomarkers and mechanisms of rTMS are still not completely understood. This study aimed to explore the functional neuroimaging changes induced by rTMS in adolescents with MDD. A total of ten sessions of rTMS were administrated to the L-DLPFC in thirteen adolescents with MDD once a day for two weeks. All of them were scanned using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and after rTMS treatment. The regional homogeneity (ReHo), amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), and the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC)-based functional connectivity (FC) were computed as neuroimaging indicators. The correlation between changes in the sgACC-based FC and the improvement in depressive symptoms was also analyzed. After rTMS treatment, ReHo and ALFF were significantly increased in the L-DLPFC, the left medial prefrontal cortex, bilateral medial orbital frontal cortex, and the left ACC. ReHo and ALFF decreased mainly in the left middle occipital gyrus, the right middle cingulate cortex (MCC), bilateral calcarine, the left cuneus, and the left superior occipital gyrus. Furthermore, the FCs between the left sgACC and the L-DLPFC, the right IFGoper, the left MCC, the left precuneus, bilateral post-central gyrus, the left supplementary motor area, and the left superior marginal gyrus were enhanced after rTMS treatment. Moreover, the changes in the left sgACC-left MCC FC were associated with an improvement in depressive symptoms in early improvers. This study showed that rTMS treatment in adolescents with MDD causes changes in brain activities and sgACC-based FC, which may provide basic neural biomarkers for rTMS clinical trials.", 
    "abstract": "Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a potential therapeutic window in the prevention of dementia; however, automated detection of early cognitive deterioration is an unresolved issue. The aim of our study was to compare various classification approaches to differentiate MCI patients from healthy controls, based on rs-fMRI data, using machine learning (ML) algorithms. Own dataset (from two centers) and ADNI database were used during the analysis. Three fMRI parameters were applied in five feature selection algorithms: local correlation, intrinsic connectivity, and fractional amplitude of low frequency fluctuations. Support vector machine (SVM) and random forest (RF) methods were applied for classification. We achieved a relatively wide range of 78-87% accuracy for the various feature selection methods with SVM combining the three rs-fMRI parameters. In the ADNI datasets case we can also see even 90% accuracy scores. RF provided a more harmonized result among the feature selection algorithms in both datasets with 80-84% accuracy for our local and 74-82% for the ADNI database. Despite some lower performance metrics of some algorithms, most of the results were positive and could be seen in two unrelated datasets which increase the validity of our methods. Our results highlight the potential of ML-based fMRI applications for automated diagnostic techniques to recognize MCI patients.", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders worldwide with high recurrence rate. Identifying MDD patients, particularly those with recurrent episodes with resting-state fMRI, may reveal the relationship between MDD and brain function. We proposed a Transformer-Encoder model, which utilized functional connectivity extracted from large-scale multisite rs-fMRI datasets to classify MDD and HC. The model discarded the Transformer's Decoder part, reducing the model's complexity and decreasing the number of parameters to adapt to the limited sample size and it does not require a complex feature selection process and achieves end-to-end classification. Additionally, our model is suitable for classifying data combined from multiple brain atlases and has an optional unsupervised pre-training module to acquire optimal initial parameters and speed up the training process. The model's performance was tested on a large-scale multisite dataset and identified brain regions affected by MDD using the Grad-CAM method. After conducting five-fold cross-validation, our model achieved an average classification accuracy of 68.61% on a dataset consisting of 1611 samples. For the selected recurrent MDD dataset, the model reached an average classification accuracy of 78.11%. Abnormalities were detected in the frontal gyri and cerebral cortex of MDD patients in both datasets. Furthermore, the identified brain regions in the recurrent MDD dataset generally exhibited a higher contribution to the model's performance.", 
    "abstract": "The social motivation hypothesis proposes that the social deficits of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are related to reward system dysfunction. However, functional connectivity (FC) patterns of the reward network in ASD have not been systematically explored yet.\nThe reward network was defined as eight regions of interest (ROIs) per hemisphere, including the nucleus accumbens (NAc), caudate, putamen, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), amygdala, and insula. We computed both the ROI-wise resting-state FC and seed-based whole-brain FC in 298 ASD participants and 348 typically developing (TD) controls from the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange I dataset. Two-sample t-tests were applied to obtain the aberrant FCs. Then, the association between aberrant FCs and clinical symptoms was assessed with Pearson's correlation or Spearman's correlation. In addition, Neurosynth Image Decoder was used to generate word clouds verifying the cognitive functions of the aberrant pathways. Furthermore, a three-way multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was conducted to examine the effects of gender, subtype and age on the atypical FCs.\nFor the within network analysis, the left ACC showed weaker FCs with both the right amygdala and left NAc in ASD compared with TD, which were negatively correlated with the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) total scores and Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) total scores respectively. For the whole-brain analysis, weaker FC (i.e., FC between the left vmPFC and left calcarine gyrus, and between the right vmPFC and left precuneus) accompanied by stronger FC (i.e., FC between the left caudate and right insula) were exhibited in ASD relative to TD, which were positively associated with the SRS motivation scores. Additionally, we detected the main effect of age on FC between the left vmPFC and left calcarine gyrus, of subtype on FC between the right vmPFC and left precuneus, of age and age-by-gender interaction on FC between the left caudate and right insula.\nOur findings highlight the crucial role of abnormal FC patterns of the reward network in the core social deficits of ASD, which have the potential to reveal new biomarkers for ASD.", 
    "abstract": "Neural plasticity is the ability of the brain to alter itself functionally and structurally as a result of its experience. However, longitudinal changes in functional connectivity of the brain are still unrevealed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aims to discover the significant connections (SCs) between brain regions for AD stages longitudinally using correlation transfer function (CorrTF) as a new biomarker for the disease progression. The dataset consists of: 29 normal controls (NC), and 23, 24, and 23 for early, late mild cognitive impairments (EMCI, LMCI), and ADs, respectively, along three distant visits. The brain was divided into 116 regions using the automated anatomical labeling atlas, where the intensity time series is calculated, and the CorrTF connections are extracted for each region. Finally, the standard t-test and ANOVA test were employed to investigate the SCs for each subject's visit. No SCs, along three visits, were found For NC subjects. The most SCs were mainly directed from cerebellum in case of EMCI and LMCI. Furthermore, the hippocampus connectivity increased in LMCI compared to EMCI whereas missed in AD. Additionally, the patterns of longitudinal changes among the different AD stages compared to Pearson Correlation were similar, for SMC, VC, DMN, and Cereb networks, while differed for EAN and SN networks. Our findings define how brain changes over time, which could help detect functional changes linked to each AD stage and better understand the disease behavior.", 
    "abstract": "Insomnia disorder (ID) seriously affects people's daily life. Difficulty falling asleep is the most commonly reported complaint in patients with ID. However, the mechanism of prolonged sleep latency (SL) is still obscure. The aim of our present study was to investigate the relationship between prolonged SL and alterations in spontaneous neural activity and brain functional connectivity (FC) in ID patients using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).\nA total of 52 insomniacs with difficulty falling asleep and 30 matched healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state fMRI. The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) was measured and group differences were compared. The peak areas with significantly different ALFF values were identified as the seed regions to calculate FC to the whole brain. SL was assessed by a wrist actigraphy device in ID patients. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA), and Hyperarousal Scale (HAS) were evaluated in both ID patients and HCs. Finally, correlation analyses were performed between the clinical features and FC/ALFF values.\nID patients showed higher PSQI, HAMA, HAS scores than HCs. The functional MRI results indicated increased ALFF value in the left insula and right amygdala and decreased ALFF value in the right superior parietal lobe (SPL) in ID patients. The seed-based FC analysis demonstrated increased FC between the left insula and the bilateral precentral gyrus and FC between the right amygdala and the left posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) in patients with ID. Correlation analysis indicated that the increased FC value of the right amygdala-left PCC was positively correlated with SL measured by actigraphy.\nThis study revealed abnormal regional spontaneous fluctuations in the right amygdala, left insula, and right SPL, as well as increased FC in the left insula-precentral and right amygdala-left PCC. Moreover, the prolonged SL was positively correlated with the abnormal FC in the right amygdala-left PCC in ID patients. The current study showed the correlation between prolonged SL and the abnormal function of emotion-related brain regions in ID patients, which may contribute to a better understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying difficulty falling asleep in patients with ID.\nhttp://www.chictr.org.cn ., ChiCTR1800015282. Registered on 20th March 2018.", 
    "abstract": "Nowadays, the limitless availability to the World Wide Web can lead to general Internet misuse and dependence. Currently, smartphone and social media use belong to the most prevalent Internet-related behavioral addiction forms. However, the neurobiological background of these Internet-related behavioral addictions is not sufficiently explored. In this study, these addiction forms were assessed with self-reported questionnaires. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging was acquired for all participants (n\u2009=\u200959, 29 males) to examine functional brain networks. The resting-state networks that were discovered using independent component analysis were analyzed to estimate within network differences. Significant negative associations with social media addiction and smartphone addiction were found in the language network, the lateral visual networks, the auditory network, the sensorimotor network, the executive network and the frontoparietal network. These results suggest that problematic smartphone and social media use are associated with sensory processing and higher cognitive functioning.", 
    "abstract": "Alcohol use disorder (AUD) has a negative impact on one's health and wastes a lot of societal resources since it damages one's brain tissue. Yet the knowledge of the neural mechanisms underlying alcohol addiction still remains limited. This study aims to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying alcohol addiction by using voxel-wise binarized degree centrality (DC), weighted DC and functional connectivity (FC) methods to analyze brain network activity in individuals with AUD.\nThirty-three AUD patients and 29 healthy controls (HC) participated in this study. Binarized and weighted DC approach coupled with a second seed-based FC algorithm was used to assess the abnormal intrinsic hub features in AUD. We also examined the correlation between changes in functional network nodes and the severity of alcohol dependence.\nThirty AUD patients and 26 HC were retained after head motion correction. The spatial distribution maps of the binarized DC and weighted DC for the AUD and HC groups were roughly similar. In comparison to HC, the AUD group had decreased binarized DC and decreased weighted DC in the left precentral gyrus (PreCG) and the left inferior parietal lobule (IPL). Significantly different brain regions in the DC analysis were defined as seed points in the FC analysis. Compared with HC, changes in FC within the right inferior temporal gyrus (ITG), right middle temporal gyrus (MTG), left dorsolateral superior frontal gyrus (SFGdor), bilateral IPL, left precuneus (PCUN), left lingual gyrus (LING), right cerebellum_crus1/ITG/inferior occipital gyrus (IOG) and right superior parietal gyrus (SPG) were observed. The correlation analysis revealed that FC of right MTG-right PreCG was negatively correlated with MAST scores, and FC of right IPL-left IPL was positively correlated with ADS scores.\nAlcohol use disorder is associated with aberrant regional activities in multiple brain areas. Binarized DC, weighted DC and FC analyses may be useful biological indicators for the detection of regional brain activities in patients with AUD. Intergroup differences in FC have also been observed in AUD patients, and these variations were connected to the severity of the symptoms. The AUD patients with lower FC value of the right IPL - left IPL has a lighter dependence on alcohol. This difference in symptom severity may be a compensation for cognitive impairment, indicating a difference in pathological pathways. Future AUD research will now have a fresh path thanks to these discoveries.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with heroin use disorder (HUD) often exhibit trait impulsivity, which may be an important factor in and a good predictor of addiction. However, the factor structure of HUD trait impulsivity (motor, attentional, and nonplanning) and its neural correlates are not yet known. A total of 24 male volunteers with HUD and 16 healthy control volunteers were recruited for this cross-sectional study. The Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11) and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) were employed using the insula as a seed point in an effort to understand the association between trait impulsivity and its intrinsic factors and functional connectivity (FC) between the insula and the whole brain. The HUD group in this study exhibited higher total trait impulsivity scores, motor impulsivity, and nonplanning impulsivity than the control group. Changes in FC between the right insula and the lateral occipital cortex and the right angular gyrus were significantly positively correlated with total trait impulsivity scores, motor impulsivity, and nonplanning impulsivity, whereas changes in the FC between the left insula and the left superior frontal gyrus and left frontopolar brain region were significantly negatively correlated with trait impulsivity. Thus, the insula may serve as an important biomarker for identifying trait impulsivity and its intrinsic factor structure in patients with HUDs.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state brain activity may be associated with the ability to perform tasks; however, a multimodal approach involving resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and event-related potentials (ERPs) has not been widely used to investigate addictive disorders.\nWe explored resting-state fMRI and auditory oddball ERP values from 26 with internet gaming disorder (IGD) patients and 27 age- and intelligence quotient-matched healthy controls (HCs). To assess the characteristics of resting-state fMRI, we calculated regional homogeneity (ReHo), amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), and fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF); we also calculated the P3 component of the ERPs.\nCompared with HCs, the individuals with IGD exhibited significant decreases in ReHo and fALFF values in the left inferior occipital gyrus, increased ReHo and ALFF values in the right precuneus, increased ALFF in the left superior frontal gyrus, and lower P3 amplitudes in the midline centro-parietal area during the auditory ERP task. Furthermore, the regional activity of resting-state fMRI in the right inferior temporal gyrus and the occipital regions were positively correlated with the P3 amplitudes in IGD patients, whereas ReHo values of the left hippocampus and the right amygdala were negatively correlated with P3.\nOur results suggest that IGD patients have difficulty interacting effectively with cognitive function and sensory processing, although its interpretations need some cautions. The findings in this study will broaden the overall understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms that underlie IGD pathophysiology.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) is a powerful tool for investigating the relationship between brain function and cognitive processes as it allows for the functional organization of the brain to be captured without relying on a specific task or stimuli. In this paper, we present a novel modeling architecture called BrainRGIN for predicting intelligence (fluid, crystallized, and total intelligence) using graph neural networks on rsfMRI derived static functional network connectivity matrices. Extending from the existing graph convolution networks, our approach incorporates a clustering-based embedding and graph isomorphism network in the graph convolutional layer to reflect the nature of the brain sub-network organization and efficient network expression, in combination with TopK pooling and attention-based readout functions. We evaluated our proposed architecture on a large dataset, specifically the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development Dataset, and demonstrated its effectiveness in predicting individual differences in intelligence. Our model achieved lower mean squared errors and higher correlation scores than existing relevant graph architectures and other traditional machine learning models for all of the intelligence prediction tasks. The middle frontal gyrus exhibited a significant contribution to both fluid and crystallized intelligence, suggesting their pivotal role in these cognitive processes. Total composite scores identified a diverse set of brain regions to be relevant which underscores the complex nature of total intelligence.", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a heterogeneous syndrome, and understanding its neural mechanisms is crucial for the advancement of personalized medicine. However, conventional subtyping studies often categorize MDD patients into a single subgroup, neglecting the continuous interindividual variations. This implies a pressing need for a dimensional approach. 230 first-episode drug-na\u00efve MDD patients and 395 healthy controls were obtained from 5 sites via the Rest-meta-MDD project. A Bayesian model was used to decompose the resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) into multiple distinct RSFC patterns (refer to as \"factors\"), and each individual was allowed to express multiple factors to varying degrees (dimensional subtyping). The associations between demographic and clinical variables with the identified factors were calculated. We identified three latent factors with distinct but partially overlapping hypo- and hyper-RSFC patterns. Most participants co-expressed multiple latent factors. All factors shared abnormal RSFC involving the default mode network and frontoparietal network, but the directionality partially differed across factors. All factors were not significantly associated with demographic and clinical variables. These findings shed light on the interindividual variability in MDD and could form the basis for developing novel therapeutic approaches that capitalize on the heterogeneity of MDD.", 
    "abstract": "The diagnosis of bipolar disorders (BD) mainly depends on the clinical history and behavior observation, while only using clinical tools often limits the diagnosis accuracy. The study aimed to create a novel BD diagnosis framework using multilayer modularity in the dynamic minimum spanning tree (MST). We collected 45 un-medicated BD patients and 47 healthy controls (HC). The sliding window approach was utilized to construct dynamic MST via resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. Firstly, we used three null models to explore the effectiveness of multilayer modularity in dynamic MST. Furthermore, the module allegiance exacted from dynamic MST was applied to train a classifier to discriminate BD patients. Finally, we explored the influence of the FC estimator and MST scale on the performance of the model. The findings indicated that multilayer modularity in the dynamic MST was not a random process in the human brain. And the model achieved an accuracy of 83.70% for identifying BD patients. In addition, we found the default mode network, subcortical network (SubC), and attention network played a key role in the classification. These findings suggested that the multilayer modularity in dynamic MST could highlight the difference between HC and BD patients, which opened up a new diagnostic tool for BD patients.\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11571-022-09907-x.", 
    "abstract": "Anxious depression, which is a common subtype of major depressive disorder, has distinct clinical features from nonanxious depression. However, little is known about the neurobiological characteristics of anxious depression. In this study, we explored resting-state regional brain activity changes between anxious depression and nonanxious depression.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance (rs-fMRI) imaging data were collected from 60 patients with anxious depression, 38 patients with nonanxious depression, and 60 matched healthy controls (HCs). One-way analysis of variance was performed to compare the whole-brain fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) in the three groups. The correlation between the fALFF values and the clinical measures was examined.\nCompared with those of HCs, the fALFF values in the left superior temporal gyrus (STG) in patients with anxious depression were significantly increased, while the fALFF values in the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG), left STG, and right STG in patients with nonanxious depression were significantly increased. Patients with anxious depression showed reduced fALFF values in the right STG compared with patients with nonanxious depression (p\u2009<\u20090.001, corrected). Within the anxious depression group, fALFF value in the right STG was positively correlated with the cognitive disturbance score (r\u2009=\u20090.36, p\u2009=\u20090.005 corrected).\nThe bilateral STG and left MTG, which are related to the default mode network, appear to be key brain regions in nonanxious depression, while the right STG plays an essential role in the neuropathological mechanism of anxious depression.", 
    "abstract": "Brachial plexus avulsion injury (BPAI) is a severe peripheral nerve injury that leads to functional reorganization of the brain. However, the interhemispheric coordination following contralateral cervical 7 nerve transfer remains unclear. In this study, 69 BPAI patients underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging examination to assess the voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC), which reveals the interhemispheric functional connection. The motor function of the affected upper extremity was measured using the Fugl-Meyer Assessment of Upper Extremity (FMA-UE) scale. The VMHC analysis showed significant differences between the bilateral precentral gyrus, supplementary motor area (SMA), middle frontal gyrus (MFG), and insula. Compared to the preoperative group, the VMHC of the precentral gyrus significantly increased in the postoperative short-term group (PO-ST group) but decreased in the postoperative long-term group (PO-LT group). Additionally, the VMHC of the SMA significantly increased in the PO-LT group. Furthermore, the VMHC of the precentral gyrus in the PO-ST group and the SMA in the PO-LT group were positively correlated with the FMA-UE scores. These findings highlight a positive relationship between motor recovery and increased functional connectivity of precentral gyrus and SMA, which provide possible therapeutic targets for future neuromodulation interventions to improve rehabilitation outcomes for BPAI patients.", 
    "abstract": "Systemic physiological dynamics, such as heart rate variability (HRV) and respiration volume per time (RVT), are known to account for significant variance in the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI). However, synchrony between these cardiorespiratory changes and the BOLD signal could be due to neuronal (i.e., autonomic activity inducing changes in heart rate and respiration) or vascular (i.e., cardiorespiratory activity facilitating hemodynamic changes and thus the BOLD signal) effects and the contributions of these effects may differ spatially, temporally, and spectrally. In this study, we characterize these brain-body dynamics using a wavelet analysis in rapidly sampled rsfMRI data with simultaneous pulse oximetry and respiratory monitoring of the Human Connectome Project. Our time-frequency analysis across resting-state networks (RSNs) revealed differences in the coherence of the BOLD signal and heartbeat interval (HBI)/RVT dynamics across frequencies, with unique profiles per network. Somatomotor (SMN), visual (VN), and salience (VAN) networks demonstrated the greatest synchrony with both systemic physiological signals when compared to other networks; however, significant coherence was observed in all RSNs regardless of direct autonomic involvement. Our phase analysis revealed distinct frequency profiles of percentage of time with significant coherence between BOLD and systemic physiological signals for different phase offsets across RSNs, suggesting that the phase offset and temporal order of signals varies by frequency. Lastly, our analysis of temporal variability of coherence provides insight on potential influence of autonomic state on brain-body communication. Overall, the novel wavelet analysis enables an efficient characterization of the dynamic relationship between cardiorespiratory activity and the BOLD signal in spatial, temporal, and spectral dimensions to inform our understanding of autonomic states and improve our interpretation of the BOLD signal.", 
    "abstract": "Gaming behavior can induce cerebral changes that may be related to the neurobiological features of gaming disorder (GD). Additionally, individuals with higher levels of depression or impulsivity are more likely to experience GD. Therefore, the present pilot study explored potential neurobiological correlates of GD in the context of depression and impulsivity, after accounting for video gaming behavior.\nUsing resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), a cross-sectional study was conducted with 35 highly involved male adult gamers to examine potential associations between GD severity and regional homogeneity (ReHo) in the entire brain. A mediation model was used to test the role of ReHo in the possible links between depression/impulsivity and GD severity.\nIndividuals with greater GD severity showed increased ReHo in the right Heschl's gyrus and decreased ReHo in the right hippocampus (rHip). Furthermore, depression and impulsivity were negatively correlated with ReHo in the rHip, respectively. More importantly, ReHo in the rHip was found to mediate the associations between depression/impulsivity and GD.\nThese preliminary findings suggest that GD severity is related to ReHo in brain regions associated with learning/memory/mood and auditory function. Higher levels of depression or impulsivity may potentiate GD through the functional activity of the hippocampus. Our findings advance our understanding of the neurobiological differences behind GD symptoms in highly involved gamers.", 
    "abstract": "As demonstrated by a plethora of studies, compromised executive functions (EF) and language are implicated in mechanisms of auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH), but the contribution of their interaction to AVH remains unclear. We hypothesized that schizophrenia patients with history of AVH (AVHh+) vs. without history of AVH (AVHh-) have a specific deficit of executive control of language and alterations in functional connectivity (FC) between the brain regions involved in EF and language, and these neuropsychological and neurophysiological traits are associated with each other.\nTo explore the executive control of language and its contribution to AVH, we used an integrative approach involving analysis of neuropsychological and resting-state fMRI data of 34 AVHh+, 16 AVHh-, and 40 healthy controls. We identified the neuropsychological and FC measures that differentiated between AVHh+, AVHh-, and HC, and tested the associations between them.\nAVHh+ were characterized by decreased category and phonological verbal fluency, utterance length, productivity in the planning tasks, and poorer retelling. AVHh+ had decreased FC between the left inferior frontal gyrus and the anterior cingulate cortex. Productivity in category verbal fluency was associated with the FC between these regions.\nPoor executive control of word retrieval and deficient programming of sentence and narrative related to more general deficits of planning may be the neuropsychological traits specific for AVHh+. A neurophysiological trait specific for AVHh+ may be a decreased FC between regions involved in language production and differentiation between alien- vs. self-generated speech and between language production vs. comprehension.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies indicated that laser acupuncture (LA) may effectively treat various medical conditions. However, brain responses associated with LA intervention have not been fully investigated. This study is focused on the effect of LA with different energy density (ED) in brain using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We hypothesized that different ED would elicit various brain responses. We enrolled healthy adults participants and selected bilateral PC6 (Neiguan) as the intervention points. LA was applied, respectively, with ED of 0, 7.96, or 23.87\u2009J/cm", 
    "abstract": "Brain age is a promising biomarker for predicting chronological age based on brain imaging data. Although movie and resting-state functional MRI techniques have attracted much research interest for the investigation of brain function, whether the 2 different imaging paradigms show similarities and differences in terms of their capabilities and properties for predicting brain age remains largely unexplored. Here, we used movie and resting-state functional MRI data from 528 participants aged from 18 to 87\u00a0years old in the Cambridge Centre for Ageing and Neuroscience data set for functional network construction and further used elastic net for age prediction model building. The connectivity properties of movie and resting-state functional MRI were evaluated based on the connections supporting predictive model building. We found comparable predictive abilities of movie and resting-state connectivity in estimating brain age of individuals, as evidenced by correlation coefficients of 0.868 and 0.862 between actual and predicted age, respectively. Despite some similarities, notable differences in connectivity properties were observed between the predictive models using movie and resting-state functional MRI data, primarily involving components of the default mode network. Our results highlight that both movie and resting-state functional MRI are effective and promising techniques for predicting brain age. Leveraging its data acquisition advantages, such as improved child and patient compliance resulting in reduced motion artifacts, movie functional MRI is emerging as an important paradigm for studying brain function in pediatric and clinical populations.", 
    "abstract": "The objective of this study is to explore the neural correlates of pain sensitization in patients with chronic low back pain (cLBP). While the association between cLBP and pain sensitization has been widely reported, the underlying brain mechanism responsible for this relationship requires further investigation.\nOur study included 56 cLBP patients and 56 healthy controls (HC). Functional magnetic resonance imaging data were obtained, and the voxel-wise amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) was calculated to identify brain alterations in cLBP patients compared to HC groups. Pearson correlation coefficients were computed to explore the association between clinical data and brain alterations. Furthermore, mediation analyses were performed to investigate the path association between brain alterations and pain-related behaviors.\nOur findings revealed that patients with cLBP exhibited higher sensitivity, attention, and catastrophizing tendencies towards pain compared to HC. Furthermore, cLBP patients displayed significantly higher ALFF in various brain regions within the \"pain matrix\" and the default mode network when compared to HC. The altered precuneus ALFF was positively correlated with pain intensity (R = 0.51, P<0.001) and was negatively correlated with pain sensitivity (R = -0.43, P<0.001) in cLBP patients. Importantly, the effect of altered precuneus ALFF on pain intensity was mediated by pain threshold in these patients.\nOur study suggests that altered neural activity in the precuneus may contribute to pain hypersensitivity, which further exacerbating pain in cLBP patients.", 
    "abstract": "A large body of literature suggests that the primary (high callousness-unemotional traits [CU] and low anxiety) and secondary (high CU traits and anxiety) variants of psychopathy significantly differ in terms of their clinical profiles. However, little is known about their neurobiological differences. While few studies showed that variants differ in brain activity during fear processing, it remains unknown whether they also show atypical functioning in motivational and reward system. Latent Profile Analysis (LPA) was conducted on a large sample of adolescents (n\u2009=\u20091416) to identify variants based on their levels of callousness and anxiety. Seed-to-voxel connectivity analysis was subsequently performed on resting-state fMRI data to compare connectivity patterns of the nucleus accumbens across subgroups. LPA failed to identify the primary variant when using total score of CU traits. Using a family-wise cluster correction, groups did not differ on functional connectivity. However, at an uncorrected threshold the secondary variant showed distinct functional connectivity between the nucleus accumbens and posterior insula, lateral orbitofrontal cortex, supplementary motor area, and parietal regions. Secondary LPA analysis using only the callousness subscale successfully distinguish both variants. Group differences replicated results of deficits in functional connectivity between the nucleus accumbens and posterior insula and supplementary motor area, but additionally showed effect in the superior temporal gyrus which was specific to the primary variant. The current study supports the importance of examining the neurobiological markers across subgroups of adolescents at risk for conduct problems to precise our understanding of this heterogeneous population.", 
    "abstract": "Neuronal degeneration and apoptosis may play an important role in the pathogenesis of tardive dyskinesia (TD). Previous studies suggested brain structural and functional abnormalities in patients with TD. We investigated changes in cerebral regional homogeneity (ReHo) in patients with TD using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Imaging data were collected from schizophrenia patients with TD (TD group, n=58) and without TD (non-TD group, n=66) and healthy controls (HC group, n=67), processed with SPM, and evaluated at a corrected threshold. Psychopathology and severity of TD were assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), respectively. Results: TD vs. non-TD group showed significantly higher ReHo in the Left Inferior Semilunar Lobule and Right Fusiform Gyrus and lower ReHo in Left Supramarginal Gyrus, Right Inferior Tempotal Gyrus, and Left Medial Frontal Gyrus. The ReHo value in the Left Inferior Semilunar Lobule was negatively correlated with AIMS upper limbs scores. Conclusions: The findings suggest altered regional neural connectivities in association with TD and may inform research of the etiology and monitor the course of TD in patients with schizophrenia and potentially other psychotic disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Delineating the neuropathological characteristics of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is critical for understanding its pathophysiology. While temporal stability represents a crucial aspect of the brain's functional architecture, the specific patterns underlying its contribution to POAG remain unclear. This study aims to analyze the brain functional abnormalities in POAG using functional stability, a dynamic functional connectivity (DFC) approach based on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Seventy patients with POAG and forty-five healthy controls underwent rs-fMRI and ophthalmological examinations. The stability of DFC was calculated as the concordance of DFC over time using a sliding-window approach, and the differences in stability between the two groups were compared. Subsequently, Spearman's correlation analyses were conducted to examine the relationship between functional stability and clinical indicators. Compared with healthy controls, patients with POAG exhibited significantly decreased functional stability in the visual network, including the early visual center, ventral and dorsal stream visual cortex in both hemispheres. Conversely, stability values increased in the bilateral inferior parietal gyrus and right inferior frontal cortex. In POAG patients, the dynamic stability of the left early visual cortex and ventral stream visual cortex correlated with the mean deviation of visual field defects (r\u2009=\u20090.251, p\u2009=\u20090.037). The evidence from this study suggests that functional stability may provide a new understanding of brain alterations in the progression of POAG.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), initially proposed by Biswal et al. in 1995, has emerged as a pivotal facet of neuroimaging research. Its ability to examine brain activity during the resting state without the need for explicit tasks or stimuli has made it an integral component of brain imaging studies. In recent years, rs-fMRI has witnessed substantial growth and found widespread application in the investigation of functional connectivity within the brain. To delineate the developmental trajectory of rs-fMRI over the past two decades, we conducted a comprehensive analysis using bibliometric tool Citespace. Our analysis encompassed publication trends, authorship networks, institutional affiliations, international collaborations, as well as emergent themes in references and keywords. Our study reveals a remarkable increase in the volume of rs-fMRI publications over the past two decades, underscoring the burgeoning interest and potential within this field. Harvard University stands out as the institution with the highest number of research papers published in the realm of RS-fMRI, while the United States holds the highest overall influence in this domain. The recent emergence of keywords such as \"machine learning\" and \"default mode,\" coupled with citation surges in reference to rs-fMRI, have paved new avenues for research within this field. Our study underscores the critical importance of integrating machine learning techniques into rs-fMRI investigations, offering valuable insights into brain function and disease diagnosis. These findings hold profound significance for the field of neuroscience and may furnish insights for future research employing rs-fMRI as a diagnostic tool for a wide array of neurological disorders, thus emphasizing its pivotal role and potential as a tool for investigating brain functionality.", 
    "abstract": "Recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) is an approved method to improve the growth and ameliorate behavioral issues in children with short stature. However, the data concerning the effects of rhGH treatment on spontaneous brain activity remains unclear. This study included 35 children with short stature, categorized into two groups: the treated group (n = 14) and the untreated group (n = 21). All participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and neuropsychological assessments at baseline and at the end of a one-year follow-up. The rs-fMRI based amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF) analysis method was employed to assess spontaneous brain activity. Interaction effects between rhGH and time on ALFF were detected using a mixed-effects analysis. Additionally, Stepwise regression analysis was conducted to investigate the associations between ALFF values and significant clinical indicators. The treated group exhibited significant improvements in height, weight, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) levels, and processing speed index (PSI) when reevaluated from baseline. The interaction effect of rhGH \u00d7 time was evident in the right putamen (RPUT), where the ALFF value showed a significant increase following rhGH treatment, while also demonstrating a notable positive correlation with height. Moreover, The main effect of time was manifested as a significant decrease in the ALFF value of the left dorsolateral superior frontal gyrus (LSFG) within the untreated group during the follow-up period, concurrently displaying a positive correlation with age. In conclusion, rhGH treatment not only has a positive effect on the growth, cognition, and behavior of children with short stature, but also improves and normalizes spontaneous brain activity.", 
    "abstract": "This study intended to investigate the frequency specific brain oscillation activity in patients with acute basal ganglia ischemic stroke (BGIS) by using the degree centrality (DC) method. A total of 34 acute BGIS patients and 44 healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scanning. The DC values in three frequency bands (conventional band: 0.01-0.08 Hz, slow\u20114 band: 0.027-0.073 Hz, slow\u20115 band: 0.01-0.027 Hz) were calculated. A two-sample t-test was used to explore the between-group differences in the conventional frequency band. A two-way repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to analyze the DC differences between groups (BGIS patients, HCs) and bands (slow\u20114, slow\u20115). Moreover, correlations between DC values and clinical indicators were performed. In conventional band, the DC value in the right middle temporal gyrus was decreased in BGIS patients compared with HCs. Significant differences of DC were observed between the two bands mainly in the bilateral cortical brain regions. Compared with the HCs, the BGIS patients showed increased DC in the right superior temporal gyrus and the left precuneus, but decreased mainly in the right inferior temporal gyrus, right inferior occipital gyrus, right precentral, and right supplementary motor area. Furthermore, the decreased DC in the right rolandic operculum in slow-4 band and the right superior temporal gyrus in slow-5 band were found by post hoc two-sample t-test of main effect of group. There was no significant correlation between DC values and clinical scales after Bonferroni correction. Our findings showed that the DC changes in BGIS patients were frequency specific. Functional abnormalities in local brain regions may help us to understand the underlying pathogenesis mechanism of brain functional reorganization of BGIS patients.", 
    "abstract": "Limited research exists on the association between resting-state functional network connectivity in the brain and learning and memory processes in advanced age. This study examined within-network connectivity of cingulo-opercular (CON), frontoparietal control (FPCN), and default mode (DMN) networks, and verbal and visuospatial learning and memory in older adults. Across domains, we hypothesized that greater CON and FPCN connectivity would associate with better learning, and greater DMN connectivity would associate with better memory. A total of 330 healthy older adults (age range = 65-89) underwent resting-state fMRI and completed the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R) and Brief Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised (BVMT-R) in a randomized clinical trial. Total and delayed recall scores were assessed from baseline data, and a learning ratio calculation was applied to participants' scores. Average CON, FPCN, and DMN connectivity values were obtained with CONN Toolbox. Hierarchical regressions controlled for sex, race, ethnicity, years of education, and scanner site, as this was a multi-site study. Greater within-network CON connectivity was associated with better verbal learning (HVLT-R Total Recall, Learning Ratio), visuospatial learning (BVMT-R Total Recall), and visuospatial memory (BVMT-R Delayed Recall). Greater FPCN connectivity was associated with better visuospatial learning (BVMT-R Learning Ratio) but did not survive multiple comparison correction. DMN connectivity was not associated with these measures of learning and memory. CON may make small but unique contributions to learning and memory across domains, making it a valuable target in future longitudinal studies and interventions to attenuate memory decline. Further research is necessary to understand the role of FPCN in learning and memory.", 
    "abstract": "This study investigates the functional brain connectivity in patients with anterior knee pain (AKP). While biomechanical models are frequently employed to investigate AKP, it is important to recognize that pain can manifest even in the absence of structural abnormalities. Leveraging the capabilities of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), this research aims to investigate the brain mechanisms present in AKP patients.\nForty-five female subjects (24 AKP patients, 21 controls) underwent resting-state fMRI and T1-weighted structural MRI. Functional brain connectivity patterns were analyzed, focusing on pain network areas, and the influence of catastrophizing thoughts was evaluated.\nComparing patients and controls, several findings emerged. First, patients with AKP exhibited increased correlation between the right supplementary motor area and cerebellum I, as well as decreased correlation between the right insula and the left rostral prefrontal cortex and superior frontal gyrus. Second, in AKP patients with catastrophizing thoughts, there was increased correlation of the left lateral parietal cortex with two regions of the right cerebellum (II and VII) and the right pallidum, and decreased correlation between the left medial frontal gyrus and the right thalamus. Furthermore, the correlation between these regions showed promising results for discriminating AKP patients from controls, achieving a cross-validation accuracy of 80.5%.\nResting-state fMRI revealed correlation differences in AKP patients compared to controls and based on catastrophizing thoughts levels. These findings shed light on neural correlates of chronic pain in AKP, suggesting that functional brain connectivity alterations may be linked to pain experience in this population.\nEtiopathogenesis of pain in anterior knee pain patients might not be limited to the knee, but also to underlying alterations in the central nervous system: cortical changes might lead a perpetuation of pain.\n\u2022 Anterior knee pain patients exhibit distinct functional brain connectivity compared to controls, and among catastrophizing subgroups. \u2022 Resting-state fMRI reveals potential for discriminating anterior knee pain patients with 80.5% accuracy. \u2022 Functional brain connectivity differences improve understanding of pain pathogenesis and objective anterior knee pain identification.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Our study aimed to explore the abnormal spontaneous brain activity by regional homogeneity (ReHo) and its association with cognitive function to understand the neuropathology of major depressive disorder (MDD).\nReHo was used to investigate brain activities of 60 patients with first-episode drug-naive MDD and 60 healthy controls (HCs). Partial correlation analysis was conducted on altered ReHo values and the severity of symptoms and cognitive deficits. Moreover, support vector machine analysis was used to evaluate the accuracy of abnormal ReHo values in distinguishing patients with MDD from HCs.\nCompared with HCs, patients with MDD showed significantly increased ReHo values in the right cerebellum crus2 and right thalamus and decreased ReHo values in the right angular gyrus (AG) and right precuneus (PCUN). The ReHo values in right cerebellum crus2 and right AG were positively associated with working memory and visual learning, respectively. Furthermore, the combination of ReHo values in the right cerebellum crus2 and right PCUN discriminated the patients with MDD from HCs with specificity, sensitivity, and accuracy of 0.9688, 0.6250, and 0.90, respectively.\nThe design of repeated cross-sectional surveys does not allow analyses of within individual changes.\nOur study revealed that the pathophysiology mechanism of cognitive deficits in MDD may be related to abnormal spontaneous brain activity. Moreover, the combination of ReHo values in the right cerebellum crus2 and right PCUN can be used to discriminate patients with MDD from HCs effectively.", 
    "abstract": "Coupling between neuronal activity and blood perfusion is termed neurovascular coupling (NVC), and it provides a potentially new mechanistic perspective into understanding numerous brain diseases. Although abnormal brain activity and blood supply have been separately reported in mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS), whether anomalous NVC would be present is unclear.\nTo investigate NVC changes and potential neural basis in MELAS by combining resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) and arterial spin labeling (ASL).\nProspective.\nTwenty-four patients with MELAS (age: 29.8\u2009\u00b1\u20097.3\u2009years) in the acute stage and 24 healthy controls (HCs, age: 26.4\u2009\u00b1\u20098.1\u2009years). Additionally, 12 patients in the chronic stage were followed up.\n3.0\u2009T, resting-state gradient-recalled echo-planar imaging and pseudo-continuous 3D ASL sequences.\nAmplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), fractional ALFF (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and functional connectivity strength (FCS) were calculated from rs-fMRI, and cerebral blood flow (CBF) was computed from ASL. Global NVC was assessed by correlation coefficients of CBF-ALFF, CBF-fALFF, CBF-ReHo, and CBF-FCS. Regional NVC was also evaluated by voxel-wise and lesion-wise ratios of CBF/ALFF, CBF/fALFF, CBF/ReHo, and CBF/FCS.\nTwo-sample t-test, paired-sample t-test, Gaussian random fields correction. A P value <0.05 was considered statistically significant.\nCompared with HC, MELAS patients in acute stage showed significantly reduced global CBF-ALFF, CBF-fALFF, CBF-ReHo, and CBF-FCS coupling (P\u2009<\u20090.001). Altered CBF/ALFF, CBF/fALFF, CBF/ReHo, and CBF/FCS ratios were found mainly distributed in the middle cerebral artery territory in MELAS patients. In addition, significantly increased NVC ratios were found in the acute stroke-like lesions in acute stage (P\u2009<\u20090.001), with a recovery trend in chronic stage.\nThis study showed dynamic alterations in NVC in MELAS patients from acute to chronic stage, which may provide a novel insight for understanding the pathogenesis of MELAS.\n2 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 1.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with multifocal or generalized epilepsies manifesting with drop attacks have severe refractory seizures and significant cognitive and behavioural abnormalities. It is unclear to what extent these features relate to network abnormalities and how networks in sensorimotor cortex differ from those in patients with refractory focal epilepsies. Thus, in this study we sought to provide preliminary data on connectivity of sensorimotor cortex in patients with epileptic drop attacks, in comparison to patients with focal refractory epilepsies.\nResting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) data was available for 5 patients with epileptic drop attacks and 15 with refractory focal epilepsies undergoing presurgical evaluation. Functional connectivity was analyzed with a seed-based protocol, with primary seeds placed at the precentral gyrus, the postcentral gyrus and the premotor cortex. For each seed, the subjects' timeseries were extracted and transformed to Z scores. Between-group analysis was then performed using the 3dttest+\u00a0+ AFNI program.\nTwo clusters of reduced connectivity in the group with drop attacks (DA group) in relation to those with focal epilepsies were found in the between-group analysis: the precentral seed showed reduced connectivity in the surrounding motor area, and the postcentral seed, reduced connectivity with the ipsilateral posterior cingulate gyrus. In the intra-group analyses, sensorimotor and premotor networks were abnormal in the DA group, whereas patients with focal epilepsies had the usual connectivity maps with each seed.\nThis pilot study shows differences in the cerebral connectivity in the sensorimotor cortex of patients with generalized epilepsies and drop attacks which should be further explored to better understand the biological bases of the seizure generation and cognitive changes in these people.", 
    "abstract": "Despite the known benefits of data-driven approaches, the lack of approaches for identifying functional neuroimaging patterns that capture both individual variations and inter-subject correspondence limits the clinical utility of rsfMRI and its application to single-subject analyses. Here, using rsfMRI data from over 100k individuals across private and public datasets, we identify replicable multi-spatial-scale canonical intrinsic connectivity network (ICN) templates via the use of multi-model-order independent component analysis (ICA). We also study the feasibility of estimating subject-specific ICNs via spatially constrained ICA. The results show that the subject-level ICN estimations vary as a function of the ICN itself, the data length, and the spatial resolution. In general, large-scale ICNs require less data to achieve specific levels of (within- and between-subject) spatial similarity with their templates. Importantly, increasing data length can reduce an ICN's subject-level specificity, suggesting longer scans may not always be desirable. We also find a positive linear relationship between data length and spatial smoothness (possibly due to averaging over intrinsic dynamics), suggesting studies examining optimized data length should consider spatial smoothness. Finally, consistency in spatial similarity between ICNs estimated using the full data and subsets across different data lengths suggests lower within-subject spatial similarity in shorter data is not wholly defined by lower reliability in ICN estimates, but may be an indication of meaningful brain dynamics which average out as data length increases.", 
    "abstract": "Radiologically isolated syndrome (RIS) patients might have psychiatric and cognitive deficits, which suggests an involvement of major resting-state functional networks. Notwithstanding, very little is known about the neural networks involved in RIS.\nTo examine functional connectivity differences between RIS and healthy controls using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).\nResting-state fMRI data in 25 RIS patients and 28 healthy controls were analyzed using an independent component analysis; in addition, seed-based correlation analysis was used to obtain more information about specific differences in the functional connectivity of resting-state networks. Participants also underwent neuropsychological testing.\nRIS patients did not differ from the healthy controls regarding age, sex, and years of education. However, in memory (verbal and visuospatial) and executive functions, RIS patients' cognitive performance was significantly worse than the healthy controls. In addition, fluid intelligence was also affected. Twelve out of 25 (48%) RIS patients failed at least one cognitive test, and six (24.0%) had cognitive impairment. Compared to healthy controls, RIS patients showed higher functional connectivity between the default mode network and the right middle and superior frontal gyri and between the central executive network and the right thalamus (\nRIS patients had abnormal brain connectivity in major resting-state neural networks and worse performance in neurocognitive tests. This entity should be considered not an \"incidental finding\" but an exclusively non-motor (neurocognitive) variant of multiple sclerosis.", 
    "abstract": "Measures of fMRI resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC) are an essential tool for basic and clinical investigations of fronto-limbic circuits. Understanding the relationship between rs-FC and neural activity in these circuits is therefore vital. Here we introduced inhibitory designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADDs) into the macaque amygdala and activated them with a highly selective and potent DREADD agonist, deschloroclozapine. We evaluated the causal effect of activating the DREADD receptors on rs-FC and neural activity within circuits connecting amygdala and frontal cortex. Interestingly, activating the inhibitory DREADD increased rs-FC between amygdala and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Neurophysiological recordings revealed that the DREADD-induced increase in fMRI rs-FC was associated with increased local field potential coherency in the alpha band (6.5-14.5Hz) between amygdala and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Thus, our multi-disciplinary approach reveals the specific signature of neuronal activity that underlies rs-FC in fronto-limbic circuits.", 
    "abstract": "Anxiety disorders are among the most prevalent psychiatric disorders. Neuroimaging findings remain uncertain, and resting state functional magnetic resonance (rs-fMRI) connectivity is of particular interest since it is a scalable functional imaging modality. Given heterogeneous past findings for rs-fMRI in anxious individuals, we characterize patterns across anxiety disorders by conducting a systematic review and meta-analysis. Studies were included if they contained at the time of scanning both a healthy group and a patient group. Due to insufficient study numbers, the quantitative meta-analysis only included seed-based studies. We performed an activation likelihood estimation (ALE) analysis that compared patients and healthy volunteers. All analyses were corrected for family-wise error with a cluster-level threshold of p\u00a0<\u00a0.05. Patients exhibited hypo-connectivity between the amygdala and the medial frontal gyrus, anterior cingulate cortex, and cingulate gyrus. This finding, however, was not robust to potential file-drawer effects. Though limited by strict inclusion criteria, our results highlight the heterogeneous nature of reported findings. This underscores the need for data sharing when attempting to detect reliable patterns of disruption in brain activity across anxiety disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Deep learning algorithms have greatly improved our ability to estimate eloquent cortex regions from resting-state brain scans for patients about to undergo neurosurgery. The use of deep learning has the potential to fully automate functional mapping of cortex in this context. We present a highly focused state-of-the-art review on current technology for estimating eloquent cortex from resting-state functional magnetic resonance scans and identify potential paths to meet this goal in the future.", 
    "abstract": "Social interaction anxiety refers to a state of anxiety resulting from the prospect or presence of interpersonal evaluation in real or imagined social settings. Previous neuroimaging studies have revealed neural basis of social anxiety disorder. However, little is known about the neural correlates of individual differences in social interaction anxiety in nonclinical population. In the present study, we used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to explore the relationship between individual's spontaneous neural activity and social interaction anxiety, and the role that emotional intelligence played in the relationship. To this end, the correlation between the regional fractional\u00a0amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) of the brain and individuals' social interaction anxiety scores was examined. We found that social interaction anxiety was correlated with the fALFF in the insula, parahippocampal gyrus, bilateral superior temporal gyrus, and superior parietal lobule. Furthermore, we also found that emotional intelligence partially mediated the association between the fALFF in these regions and social interaction anxiety. Taken together, our study provided the first evidence for the spontaneous neural basis of social interaction anxiety in normal population, and highlighted the neural substrates through which emotional intelligence might play an important role in social interaction anxiety.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the neural mechanism underlying the transition from suicidal ideation to action is crucial but remains unclear. To explore this mechanism, we combined resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) and computational modeling to investigate differences between those who attempted suicide(SA) and those who hold only high levels of suicidal ideation(HSI).\nA total of 120 MDD patients were categorized into SA group (n=47) and HSI group (n=73). All participants completed a resting-state functional MRI scan, with three subregions of the insula and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) being chosen as the region of interest (ROI) in seed-to-voxel analyses. Additionally, 86 participants completed the balloon analogue risk task (BART), and a five-parameter Bayesian modeling of BART was estimated.\nIn the SA group, the FC between the ventral anterior insula (vAI) and the superior/middle frontal gyrus (vAI-SFG, vAI-MFG), as well as the FC between posterior insula (pI) and MFG (pI-MFG), were lower than those in HSI group. The correlation analysis showed a negative correlation between the FC of vAI-SFG and psychological pain avoidance in SA group, whereas a positive correlation in HSI group. Furthermore, the FC of vAI-MFG displayed a negative correlation with loss aversion in SA group, while a positive correlation was found with psychological pain avoidance in HSI group.\nIn current study, two distinct neural mechanisms were identified in the insula which involving in the progression from suicidal ideation to action. Dysfunction in vAI FCs may gradually stabilize as individuals experience heightened psychological pain, and a shift from positive to negative correlation patterns of vAI-MFC may indicate a transition from state to trait impairment. Additionally, the dysfunction in PI FC may lead to a lowered threshold for suicide by blunting the perception of physical harm.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been characterized by impairments among distributed functional brain networks, e.g., the frontoparietal network (FPN), default mode network (DMN), and reward and motivation-related circuits (RMN). In the current study, we evaluated the complexity and functional connectivity (FC) of resting state fMRI (rsfMRI) in pre-adolescents with ADHD for pathology-relevant networks. We leveraged data from the Adolescent Brain and Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study. The final study sample included 63 children with ADHD and 92 healthy control children matched on age, sex, and pubertal development status. For selected regions in relevant networks, ANCOVA compared multiscale entropy (MSE) and FC between the groups. Finally, differences in the association between MSE and FC were evaluated. We found significantly reduced MSE along with increased FC within the FPN of pre-adolescents with ADHD compared to matched healthy controls. Significant partial correlations between MSE and FC emerged in fewer regions in the participants with ADHD than in the controls. The observation of reduced entropy is consistent with existing literature using rsfMRI and other neuroimaging modalities. The current findings of complexity and FC in ADHD support hypotheses of altered function of inhibitory control networks in ADHD.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to investigate the functional abnormalities between the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the whole brain in individuals with Insomnia Disorder (ID) using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Additionally, the study aimed to explore the underlying neural mechanisms of ID.\nWe enrolled 18 participants with ID and 16 normal controls (NC). Resting-state functional connectivity (FC) between the NAc and the whole brain voxels was calculated and compared between the two groups to identify differential brain region. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was employed to assess the ability of differential features to distinguish between groups. Furthermore, Pearson correlation analysis was performed to examine the relationship between neurocognitive scores and differential features.\nThe ID group exhibited significantly reduced FC values in several brain regions, including the right supplementary motor area, the bilateral middle frontal gyrus, the bilateral median cingulate and paracingulate gyri and the left precuneus. The area under the curve (AUC) of the classification model based on FC in these brain regions was 83.3%. Additionally, the abnormal functional changes observed in ID patients were positively correlated with the Fatigue Severity Scale (\nThese findings suggest that the NAc may play a crucial role in the diagnosis of ID and could serve as a potential imaging biomarker, providing insights into the underlying neural mechanisms of the disorder.", 
    "abstract": "The neurophysiological mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remain unknown. Cognitive changes may be caused by brain alterations in neural activity and functional connectivity (FC).\nThis study aims to investigate the alterations between spontaneous brain neural activity and FC in male NAFLD patients and the relationship of neural activity with cognitive performance.\nIn this prospective study, 33 male pre-cirrhosis NAFLD subjects and 20 male controls matched for age, education level, and body mass index. All participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans and neuropsychological examinations. Regional homogeneity (ReHo) analysis was used to investigate the brain function in NAFLD, and regions with significantly altered ReHo were selected as seeds for subsequent FC analysis. Partial correlation analysis was used to assess the relationships between altered ReHo measures and cognitive performance indicators.\nCompared with the controls, the NAFLD patients showed increased ReHo in the opercular part of the right inferior frontal gyrus (IFGoperc) and decreased ReHo in the right middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and left superior parietal gyrus (SPG). The subsequent FC analysis showed increased FC between these regions (right IFGoperc, right MFG, and left SPG) and nodes of the default mode network (DMN) (such as left supraMarginal, left median cingulate and paracingulate gyri, left precuneus, orbital part of left medial frontal gyrus, and bilateral posterior cingulate gyrus). In addition, significant positive correlations were observed between NAFLD patients' clock drawing test scores and altered ReHo in prefrontal cortices (right IFGoperc and right MFG).\nBefore developing cirrhosis, NAFLD patients showed altered neural activity in several brain regions and altered FC between the salience network and DMN. These alterations could potentially be a compensatory mechanism to maintain cognitive function in pre-cirrhosis NAFLD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Psoriasis is an autoimmune skin disease that often co-occurs with psychological morbidities such as anxiety and depression, and psychosocial issues also lead psoriasis patients to avoid other people. However, the precise mechanism underlying the comorbidity of psoriasis and anxiety is unknown. Also, whether the social avoidance phenomenon seen in human patients also exists in psoriasis-like animal models remains unknown. In the present study, anxiety-like behaviours and social avoidance-like behaviours were observed in an imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like C57-BL6 mouse model along with typical psoriasis-like dermatitis and itch-like behaviours. The 11.7T resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging showed differences in brain regions between the model and control group, and voxel-based morphometry showed that the grey matter volume changed in the basal forebrain region, anterior commissure intrabulbar and striatum in the psoriasis-like mice. Seed-based resting state functional connectivity analysis revealed connectivity changes in the amygdala, periaqueductal gray, raphe nuclei and lateral septum. We conclude that the imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like C57-BL6 mouse model is well suited for mechanistic studies and for performing preclinical therapeutic trials for treating anxiety and pathological social avoidance in psoriasis patients.", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning techniques are increasingly embraced in neuroimaging studies of healthy and diseased human brains. They have been used successfully in predicting phenotypes, or even clinical outcomes, and in turning functional connectome metrics into phenotype biomarkers of both healthy individuals and patients. In this study, we used functional connectivity characteristics based on resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging data to accurately classify healthy elderly in terms of their phenotype status. Additionally, as the functional connections that contribute to the classification can be identified, we can draw inferences about the network that is predictive of the investigated phenotypes. Our proposed pipeline for phenotype classification can be expanded to other phenotypes (cognitive, psychological, clinical) and possibly be used to shed light on the modifiable risk and protective factors in normative and pathological brain aging.", 
    "abstract": "Musical training has been linked to enhanced interoceptive abilities and increased resting-state (RS) functional connectivity (FC) within the interoceptive brain network. We aimed to replicate and extend these findings with a unique cross-sectional and longitudinal study design. Professional musicians and matched individuals with no prior musical experience (training group) were recruited. Participants underwent RS fMRI scans and completed heartbeat counting and discrimination tasks outside of the scanner (time point 1). The training group additionally had RS scans and interoception tests repeated after a 6-month-long keyboard course training (time point 2). We found no evidence for increased interoceptive abilities in professional musicians relative to non-musicians, nor did we observe any improvements in interoception over the course of musical training. RS FC analysis revealed increased FC within the sensorimotor network in professional musicians compared to the training group at the first time point with no change in FC over time in the Training group. These findings challenge the view that musical training may improve interoceptive abilities. Yet, the results suggest that musical training is related to increased communication within the sensorimotor RS network, which consists of some hubs important for interoceptive processing (namely pre- and postcentral gyri and supplementary motor area).", 
    "abstract": "Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) block-design experiments typically include active ON-blocks with presentation of cognitive tasks which are contrasted with OFF- blocks with no tasks presented. OFF-blocks in between ON-blocks can however, also be seen as a proxy for intermittent periods of resting, inducing temporary resting-states. We still do not know if brain activity during such intermittent periods reflects the same kind of resting-state activity as that obtained during a continuous period, as is typically the case in studies of the classic Default Mode Network (DMN). The purpose of the current study was therefore to investigate both similarities and differences in brain activity between intermittent and continuous resting conditions.\nThere were 47 healthy participants in the 3T fMRI experiment. Data for the intermittent resting-state condition were acquired from resting-periods in between active task-processing periods in a standard ON-OFF block design, with three different cognitive tasks presented during ON-blocks. Data for the continuous resting-state condition were acquired during a 5 min resting period after the task-design had been presented.\nThe results showed that activity was overall similar in the two conditions, but with some differences. These differences were within the DMN network, and for the interaction of DMN with other brain networks. DMN maps showed weak overlap between conditions in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), and in particular for the intermittent compared to the continuous resting-state condition. Moreover, DMN showed strong connectivity with the salience network (SN) in the intermittent resting-state condition, particularly in the anterior insula and the supramarginal gyrus. The observed differences may reflect a \"carry-over\" effect from task-processing to the next resting-state period, not present in the continuous resting-state condition, causing interference from the ON-blocks. Further research is needed to fully understand the extent of differences between intermittent and continuous resting-state conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Fear of cancer recurrence (FCR) is one of the most distressing concerns for breast cancer survivors, but the neural mechanism underlying FCR remains unclear.\nWe conducted a cross-sectional study and recruited 62 breast cancer survivors varying in FCR (31 high-FCR individuals and 31 low-FCR individuals) and compared neuroimaging findings. Data from 3 low-FCR subjects were excluded because they did not complete all experiments. All the participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Regional homogeneity (ReHo) and voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) were assessed.\nBreast cancer survivors with high and low FCR significantly differed in the ReHo of the left caudate nucleus and precuneus as well as in the VMHC of the posterior cerebellar lobe, superior frontal gyrus, orbital frontal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, occipital gyrus, inferior parietal lobule and frontal middle gyrus. FCR was negatively correlated with the mean ReHo of the left caudate nucleus (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.501, p\u00a0<\u00a00.001) and positively correlated with the mean ReHo of the right precuneus (r\u00a0=\u00a00.505, p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). In addition, FCR was positively correlated with the mean VMHC of the bilateral superior occipital gyrus (r\u00a0=\u00a00.438, p\u00a0<\u00a00.001).\nThese findings suggest that the left caudate nucleus, right precuneus and bilateral superior occipital gyrus are involved in FCR, which may provide preliminary evidence to improve the present understanding of the neural mechanisms of FCR.", 
    "abstract": "Advancements in non-invasive brain analysis through novel approaches such as big data analytics and in silico simulation are essential for explaining brain function and associated pathologies. In this study, we extend the vector auto-regressive surrogate technique from a single multivariate time-series to group data using a novel Group Surrogate Data Generating Model (GSDGM). This methodology allowed us to generate biologically plausible human brain dynamics representative of a large human resting-state (rs-fMRI) dataset obtained from the Human Connectome Project. Simultaneously, we defined a novel similarity measure, termed the Multivariate Time-series Ensemble Similarity Score (MTESS). MTESS showed high accuracy and f-measure in subject identification, and it can directly compare the similarity between two multivariate time-series. We used MTESS to analyze both human and marmoset rs-fMRI data. Our results showed similarity differences between cortical and subcortical regions. We also conducted MTESS and state transition analysis between single and group surrogate techniques, and confirmed that a group surrogate approach can generate plausible group centroid multivariate time-series. Finally, we used GSDGM and MTESS for the fingerprint analysis of human rs-fMRI data, successfully distinguishing normal and outlier sessions. These new techniques will be useful for clinical applications and in silico simulation.", 
    "abstract": "The external behavioural manifestations and internal neural mechanisms of anhedonia are sexually dimorphic. This study aimed to explore the sex differences in the regional brain neuroimaging features of anhedonia in the context of major depressive disorder (MDD).\nThe resting-fMRI by applying amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) method was estimated in 414 patients with MDD (281 high anhedonia [HA], 133 low anhedonia [LA]) and 213 healthy controls (HC). The effects of two factors in patients with MDD were analysed using a 2 (sex: male, female)\u00a0\u00d7\u00a02 (group: HA, LA) ANOVA concerning the brain regions in which statistical differences were identified between patients with MDD and HC. We followed up with patients with HA at baseline, and 43 patients completed a second fMRI scan in remission. Paired t-test was performed to compare the ALFF values of anhedonia-related brain regions between the baseline and remission periods.\nFor the sex-by-group interaction, the bilateral insula, right hippocampus, right post cingulum cortex, and left putamen showed significant differences. Furthermore, the abnormally elevated ALFF values in anhedonia-related brain regions at baseline decreased in remission.\nOur findings point to the fact that the females showed unique patterns of anhedonia-related brain activity compared to males, which may have clinical implications for interfering with the anhedonia symptoms in MDD. Using task fMRI, we can further examine the distinct characteristics between consumption anhedonia and anticipation anhedonia in MDD.", 
    "abstract": "Uncontrollable body movements are typical symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), which results in inconsistent findings regarding resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) networks, especially for group difference clusters. Systematically identifying the motion-associated data was highly demanded.\nTo determine data censoring criteria using a quantitative cross validation-based data censoring (CVDC) method and to improve the detection of rsFC deficits in PD.\nProspective.\nForty-one PD patients (68.63\u2009\u00b1\u20099.17\u2009years, 44% female) and 20 healthy controls (66.83\u2009\u00b1\u200912.94\u2009years, 55% female).\n3-T, T1-weighted gradient echo and EPI sequences.\nClusters with significant differences between groups were found in three visual networks, default network, and right sensorimotor network. Five-fold cross-validation tests were performed using multiple motion exclusion criteria, and the selected criteria were determined based on cluster sizes, significance values, and Dice coefficients among the cross-validation tests. As a reference method, whole brain rsFC comparisons between groups were analyzed using a FMRIB Software Library (FSL) pipeline with default settings.\nGroup difference clusters were calculated using nonparametric permutation statistics of FSL-randomize. The family-wise error was corrected. Demographic information was evaluated using independent sample t-tests and Pearson's Chi-squared tests. The level of statistical significance was set at P\u2009<\u20090.05.\nWith the FSL processing pipeline, the mean Dice coefficient of the network clusters was 0.411, indicating a low reproducibility. With the proposed CVDC method, motion exclusion criteria were determined as frame-wise displacement >0.55\u2009mm. Group-difference clusters showed a mean P-value of 0.01 and a 72% higher mean Dice coefficient compared to the FSL pipeline. Furthermore, the CVDC method was capable of detecting subtle rsFC deficits in the medial sensorimotor network and auditory network that were unobservable using the conventional pipeline.\nThe CVDC method may provide superior sensitivity and improved reproducibility for detecting rsFC deficits in PD.\n1 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 2.", 
    "abstract": "Deep learning has demonstrated great potential for objective diagnosis of neuropsychiatric disorders based on neuroimaging data, which includes the promising resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI). However, the insufficient sample size has long been a bottleneck for deep model training for the purpose. In this study, we proposed a Siamese network with node convolution (SNNC) for individualized predictions based on RS-fMRI data. With the involvement of Siamese network, which uses sample pair (rather than a single sample) as input, the problem of insufficient sample size can largely be alleviated. To adapt to connectivity maps extracted from RS-fMRI data, we applied node convolution to each of the two branches of the Siamese network. For regression purposes, we replaced the contrastive loss in classic Siamese network with the mean square error loss and thus enabled Siamese network to quantitatively predict label differences. The label of a test sample can be predicted based on any of the training samples, by adding the label of the training sample to the predicted label difference between them. The final prediction for a test sample in this study was made by averaging the predictions based on each of the training samples. The performance of the proposed SNNC was evaluated with age and IQ predictions based on a public dataset (Cam-CAN). The results indicated that SNNC can make effective predictions even with a sample size of as small as 40, and SNNC achieved state-of-the-art accuracy among a variety of deep models and standard machine learning approaches.", 
    "abstract": "In recent years, resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI)-based brain entropy (BEN) has gained increasing interest as a tool to characterize brain activity. While previous studies indicate that BEN is correlated with cognition, it remains unclear whether BEN is influenced by other factors that typically affect brain activity measured by fMRI.\nTo investigate the relationship between BEN and physiological indices, including respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), systolic blood pressure (s-BP), and body mass index (BMI), and to investigate whether and to what extent the relationship between BEN and cognition is influenced by physiological variables.\nRetrospective.\nOne thousand two hundred six healthy subjects (mean age: 28.83\u2009\u00b1\u20093.69\u2009years; 550 male) with rsfMRI datasets selected from the Human Connectome Project (HCP).\nMultiband echo planar imaging (EPI) sequence at 3.0 Tesla.\nNeurocognitive, physical health (RR, HR, s-BP, BMI), and rsfMRI data were retrieved from the HCP datasets. Neurocognition was measured through the total cognition composite (TCC) score provided by HCP. BEN maps were calculated from rsfMRI data.\nMultiple regression models, p\nBEN was negatively associated with RR (T-thresholds ranging from 4.75 to 4.8; r-threshold\u2009=\u2009|0.15|) and positively associated with s-BP and BMI (T-thresholds ranging from 4.75 to 4.8; r-threshold\u2009=\u2009|0.15|) in areas overlapping with the default mode network. After controlling the physiological effects, BEN still showed regional associations with TCC, including negative associations (T-thresholds\u2009=\u20093.09; r-threshold\u2009=\u2009|0.1|) in the fronto-parietal cortex and positive associations (T-thresholds\u2009=\u20093.09; r-threshold\u2009=\u2009|0.1|) in the sensorimotor system (motor network and the limbic system).\nRR negatively affects rsfMRI-derived BEN, while s-BP and BMI positively affect BEN. The positive associations between BEN and cognition in the motor network and the limbic system might indicate a facilitation of information processing in the sensorimotor system.\n3 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 3.", 
    "abstract": "To assess the interhemispheric homotopic connectivity alterations in patients with comitant exotropia (CE) before and after surgery, using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) with voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC).\nThirty-four patients with CE and twenty-four well-matched healthy controls (HCs) were enrolled to undergo a preoperative rs-fMRI scan. The rs-fMRI scan was performed again in twenty-four patients 1 month after surgery. The VMHC method was applied to evaluate the group differences of interhemispheric functional connectivity. The correlations between VMHC values and clinical variables were analyzed in the patient group.\nCompared with HCs, 34 patients with CE showed significantly increased VMHC values in occipital lobe (cuneus/superior occipital gyrus/middle occipital gyrus/calcarine), cerebellar area 8/cerebellar Crus1 area, and cerebellar Crus1 area. In CE group, VMHC in the cuneus was positively correlated with stereoacuity (\nOur study revealed the interhemispheric homotopic connectivity changes of patients with CE in the occipital lobe and cerebellum before and after surgery. The findings may provide a new perspective for the neurological alterations of CE.", 
    "abstract": "The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) is a measure of spontaneous brain activity derived from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Previous research has suggested that abnormal ALFF values may be associated with major depressive disorder (MDD) and suicide attempts in adolescents. In this study, our aim was to investigate the differences in ALFF values between adolescent MDD patients with and without a history of suicide attempts, and to explore the potential utility of ALFF as a neuroimaging biomarker for aiding in the diagnosis and prediction of suicide attempts in this population.\nThe study included 34 adolescent depression patients with suicide attempts (SU group), 43 depression patients without suicide attempts (NSU group), and 36 healthy controls (HC group). Depression was diagnosed using a threshold score greater than 17 on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). The rs-fMRI was employed to calculate zALFF values and compare differences among the groups. Associations between zALFF values in specific brain regions and clinical variables such as emotion regulation difficulties were explored using Pearson partial correlation analysis. Receiver-Operating Characteristics (ROC) analysis assessed the ability of mean zALFF values to differentiate between SU and NSU groups.\nSignificant differences in zALFF values were observed in the left and right inferior temporal gyrus (l-ITG, r-ITG) and right fusiform gyrus (r-FG) among the three groups (GRF corrected). Both SU and NSU groups exhibited increased zALFF values in the inferior temporal gyrus compared to the HC group. Furthermore, the SU group showed significantly higher zALFF values in the l-ITG and r-FG compared to both the NSU group and the HC group. Partial correlation analysis revealed a negative correlation between zALFF values in the left superior and middle frontal gyrus (l-SFG, l-MFG) and the degree of emotional dysregulation in the SU group (\nDepressed adolescents with suicidal behavior exhibit unique neural activity patterns in the inferior temporal gyrus and fusiform gyrus. These findings highlight the potential utility of these specific brain regions as biomarkers for identifying suicide risk in depressed adolescents. Furthermore, associations between emotion dysregulation and activity in their frontal gyrus regions were observed. These findings provide preliminary yet pertinent insights into the pathophysiology of suicide in depressed adolescents.", 
    "abstract": "As a complex dynamic system, the brain exhibits spatially organized recurring patterns of activity over time. Coactivation patterns (CAPs), which analyzes data from each single frame, have been utilized to detect transient brain activity states recently. However, previous CAP analyses have been conducted at the group level, which might neglect meaningful individual differences. Here, we estimated individual CAP states at both subject- and scan-level based on a densely sampled dataset: Midnight Scan Club. We used differential identifiability, which measures the gap between intra- and inter-subject similarity, to evaluate individual differences. We found individual CAPs at the subject-level achieved the best fingerprinting ability by maintaining high intra-subject similarity and enlarging inter-subject differences, and brain regions of association networks mainly contributed to the identifiability. On the other hand, scan-level CAP states were unstable across scans for the same participant. Expectedly, we found subject-specific CAPs became more reliable and discriminative with more data (i.e., longer duration). As the acquisition time of each participant is limited in practice, our results recommend a data collection strategy that collects more scans with appropriate duration (e.g., 12\u2009~\u200915\u00a0min/scan) to obtain more reliable subject-specific CAPs, when total acquisition time is fixed (e.g., 150\u00a0min). In summary, this work has constructed reliable subject-specific CAP states with meaningful individual differences, and recommended an appropriate data collection strategy, which can guide subsequent investigations into individualized brain dynamics.", 
    "abstract": "Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has proven to be a powerful tool for noninvasively measuring human brain activity; yet, thus far, fMRI has been relatively limited in its temporal resolution. A key challenge is understanding the relationship between neural activity and the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signal obtained from fMRI, generally modeled by the hemodynamic response function (HRF). The timing of the HRF varies across the brain and individuals, confounding our ability to make inferences about the timing of the underlying neural processes. Here, we show that resting-state fMRI signals contain information about HRF temporal dynamics that can be leveraged to understand and characterize variations in HRF timing across both cortical and subcortical regions. We found that the frequency spectrum of resting-state fMRI signals significantly differs between voxels with fast versus slow HRFs in human visual cortex. These spectral differences extended to subcortex as well, revealing significantly faster hemodynamic timing in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus. Ultimately, our results demonstrate that the temporal properties of the HRF impact the spectral content of resting-state fMRI signals and enable voxel-wise characterization of relative hemodynamic response timing. Furthermore, our results show that caution should be used in studies of resting-state fMRI spectral properties, because differences in fMRI frequency content can arise from purely vascular origins. This finding provides new insight into the temporal properties of fMRI signals across voxels, which is crucial for accurate fMRI analyses, and enhances the ability of fast fMRI to identify and track fast neural dynamics.\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a tool that can be used to non-invasively measure the activity of the human brain. Active parts of the brain require more oxygen, which increases blood flow to these areas. fMRI can detect these changes, and its signal reflects the coupling between brain activity and changes in blood flow. The mechanism that couples brain activity to blood flow is known as the \u2018hemodynamic response\u2019, and its timing varies across the brain. Therefore, to interpret fMRI signals correctly and use them to measure underlying brain activity, it is necessary to understand how the response changes across the brain. Current methods for probing hemodynamic response variation are either limited to specific brain regions or require patients to hold their breath \u2013 something not all groups of patients can do. To solve this problem, Bailes et al. investigated whether resting-state fMRI signals contain information about how the hemodynamic response changes across the brain. This information could then be used to better infer brain activity from fMRI measurements. The experiments showed that resting-state fMRI signals can be used to characterize and predict the timing of the hemodynamic response. Specifically, the frequencies in resting-state fMRI signals are impacted by changes in the hemodynamic response and can therefore be used to predict hemodynamic timing. Additionally, Bailes et al. showed that these predictions are better than those obtained in experiments requiring patients to hold their breath, which is the current gold standard. The findings also demonstrate that the information from the frequencies of resting-state fMRI signals should be interpreted carefully, as differences in these frequencies can have a non-neural origin. Bailes et al. propose a highly generalizable approach for mapping and predicting variations of the hemodynamic response across the whole brain. These findings provide insights into the time-related properties of fMRI signals that are crucial for accurate analyses. This will be of particular importance as the field moves towards fMRI studies focused on rapid neural dynamics and higher-level cognition.", 
    "abstract": "Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has a pronounced male predominance, but the underlying neurobiological basis of this sex bias remains unclear. Gender incoherence (GI) theory suggests that ASD is more neurally androgynous than same-sex controls. Given its central role, altered structures and functions, and sex-dependent network differences in ASD, the triple network model, including the central executive network (CEN), default mode network (DMN), and salience network (SN), has emerged as a candidate for characterizing this sex difference. Here, we measured the sex-related effective connectivity (EC) differences within and between these three networks in 72 children with ASD (36 females, 8-14\u2009years) and 72 typically developing controls (TCs) (36 females, 8-14\u2009years) from 5 sites of the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange repositories using a 2\u2009\u00d7\u20092 analysis of covariance factorial design. We also assessed brain-behavior relationships and the effects of age on EC. We found significant diagnosis-by-sex interactions on EC: females with ASD had significantly higher EC than their male counterparts within the DMN and between the SN and CEN. The interaction pattern supported the GI theory by showing that the higher EC observed in females with ASD reflected a shift towards the higher level of EC displayed in male TCs (neural masculinization), and the lower EC seen in males with ASD reflected a shift towards the lower level of EC displayed in female TCs (neural feminization). We also found significant brain-behavior correlations and significant effects of age on EC.", 
    "abstract": "Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-based study of functional connections in the brain has been highlighted by numerous human and animal studies recently, which have provided significant information to explain a wide range of pathological conditions and behavioral characteristics. In this paper, we propose the use of a graph neural network, a deep learning technique called graphSAGE, to investigate resting state fMRI (rs-fMRI) and extract the default mode network (DMN). Comparing typical methods such as seed-based correlation, independent component analysis, and dictionary learning, real data experiment results showed that the graphSAGE is more robust, reliable, and defines a clearer region of interests. In addition, graphSAGE requires fewer and more relaxed assumptions, and considers the single subject analysis and group subjects analysis simultaneously.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and complex neurodegenerative disorder with five stages on the Hoehn and Yahr scaling. Characterizing brain function alterations with progression of early stage disease would support accurate disease staging, development of new therapies, and objective monitoring of disease progression or treatment response. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a promising tool in revealing functional connectivity (FC) differences and developing biomarkers in PD. While fMRI and FC data have been utilized for diagnosis of PD through application of machine learning approaches such as support vector machine and logistic regression, the characterization of FC changes in early-stage PD has not been investigated. Given the complexity and non-linearity of fMRI data, we propose the use of a long short-term memory (LSTM) network to distinguish the early stages of PD and understand related functional brain changes. The study included 84 subjects (56 in stage 2 and 28 in stage 1) from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI), the largest-available public PD dataset. Under a repeated 10-fold stratified cross-validation, the LSTM model reached an accuracy of 71.63%, 13.52% higher than the best traditional machine learning method and 11.56% higher than a CNN model, indicating significantly better robustness and accuracy compared with other machine learning classifiers. Finally, we used the learned LSTM model weights to select the top brain regions that contributed to model prediction and performed FC analyses to characterize functional changes with disease stage and motor impairment to gain better insight into the brain mechanisms of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Persistent postural-perceptual dizziness (PPPD) is a functional chronic vestibular syndrome with symptom exacerbation by upright posture, motion, and complex visual stimuli. Among these exacerbating factors, visual exacerbation is the most specific characteristic of PPPD requiring further investigation. We hypothesized that stimulus-induced changes occur in the functional connectivity (FC) rather than simple neural activation that is involved in visual stimulation. The present study aimed to identify the neural basis of PPPD by investigating FC before and after visual stimulation.\nEleven patients with PPPD and 11 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) before and after task-based fMRI with visual stimuli.\nAt pre-stimulus, FC between the vestibular cortex and visual areas was low, while that between the somatosensory and visual areas was high in PPPD compared with that in HCs. FC between the visuospatial (parahippocampal gyrus) and spatial cognitive areas (inferior parietal lobule) was elevated in PPPD even in the pre-stimulus condition, which no longer increased at post-stimulus as observed in HCs. In the post-stimulus condition, FC between the visual and spatial cognitive areas and that between the visual and prefrontal areas increased compared with that in the pre-stimulus condition in PPPD. Task-based fMRI demonstrated that no brain regions showed different activities between the HC and PPPD groups during visual stimulation.\nIn PPPD, vestibular inputs may not be fully utilized in the vestibulo-visuo-somatosensory network. Given that the FC between visuospatial and spatial cognitive areas increased even in HCs after visual stimuli, elevated status of this FC in combination with the high FC between the somatosensory and visual areas would be involved in the visual exacerbation in PPPD. An increase in FC from the visual areas to spatial cognitive and prefrontal areas after visual stimuli may account for the prolonged symptoms after visual exacerbation and anxious status in PPPD.", 
    "abstract": "Suicidality is commonly observed in patients with depressive episodes, and electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been found to be effective in treating these patients. However, the role of ECT in suicidality remains unclear. This study used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) to explore the changes in brain function before and after ECT in depressed patients with suicidality.\nIn total, 26 depressed patients with suicidality underwent rs-fMRI at baseline and after 8-12 sessions of ECT. In addition, 32 healthy controls (HCs) matched for age, gender, and educational level underwent rs-fMRI once. The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF), the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF), and regional homogeneity (ReHo) were measured to evaluate whole brain function. Differences between the groups and time points (before and after ECT) were compared. Clinical symptoms were assessed using the 17-item Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD-17) and Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSSI).\nAt baseline, patients exhibited decreased ALFF in the right postcentral and precentral gyrus and decreased fALFF in the right supramarginal and postcentral gyrus, left superior frontal gyrus (SFG), as well as the superior and middle temporal gyrus compared to HCs. Patients also had lower ReHo in the left amygdala, anterior cingulate, and postcentral gyrus, and in the right thalamus, insula, and postcentral gyrus. They also exhibited higher ALFF in the bilateral temporal gyrus and insula as well as higher fALFF in the cerebellum. Following ECT, fALFF in the left SFG and orbital frontal cortex (OFC) significantly increased and was inversely correlated with the reduction of BSSI scores (\nOur findings suggest that the left SFG and OFC may play a key role in the mechanism of ECT for suicidality. The decrease of fALFF in the left SFG and OFC may represent a potential mechanism through which ECT effectively treats suicidality in depressed patients.", 
    "abstract": "Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have identified brain-connectivity alterations across multiple regions in people with migraine when compared to healthy controls. Few studies have focused on such changes throughout the different phases of the migraine cycle. We aimed to investigate functional connectivity during spontaneous occurring episodic migraine attacks, in comparison to interictal periods.\nEleven women with episodic migraine without aura underwent two sessions of resting-state fMRI, during and outside of a spontaneous migraine attack. Functional connectivity changes were assessed across canonical resting-state networks, identified by independent component analysis. Significantly altered connectivity was correlated with migraine attack symptoms.\nDecreased functional connectivity between subregions of the sensorimotor network (specifically, the primary somatosensory and motor cortices) and the posterior insula, bilaterally, was found during attacks. In both sessions, the functional connectivity between these regions was lower in patients who usually suffered longer attacks.\nThe sensorimotor and insular regions are involved in nociceptive, autonomic, and somatosensory processing so the finding of reduced connectivity between these structures within a migraine attack is likely associated to the perception of pain and the heighten sensitivity to stimuli experienced in this disorder.", 
    "abstract": "Dance is an art form that integrates the body and mind through movement. Dancers develop exceptional physical and mental abilities that involve various neurocognitive processes linked to embodied cognition. We propose that dancers' primary trait representation is movement-actuated and relies on the extended mirror neuron system (eMNS).\nA total of 29 dancers and 28 non-dancer controls were recruited. A hierarchical approach of intra-regional and inter-regional functional connectivity (FC) analysis was adopted to probe trait-like neurodynamics within and between regions in the eMNS during rest. Correlation analyses were employed to examine the associations between dance training, creativity, and the FC within and between different brain regions.\nWithin the eMNS, dancers exhibited increased intra-regional FC in various brain regions compared to non-dancers. These regions include the left inferior frontal gyrus, left ventral premotor cortex, left anterior insula, left posterior cerebellum (crus II), and bilateral basal ganglia (putamen and globus pallidus). Dancers also exhibited greater intrinsic inter-regional FC between the cerebellum and the core/limbic mirror areas within the eMNS. In dancers, there was a negative correlation observed between practice intensity and the intrinsic FC within the eMNS involving the cerebellum and basal ganglia. Additionally, FCs from the basal ganglia to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were found to be negatively correlated with originality in dancers.\nOur results highlight the proficient communication within the cortical-subcortical hierarchy of the eMNS in dancers, linked to the automaticity and cognitive-motor interactions acquired through training. Altered functional couplings in the eMNS can be regarded as a unique neural signature specific to virtuoso dancers, which might predispose them for skilled dancing performance, perception, and creation.", 
    "abstract": "End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) is known to be associated with a range of brain injuries, including cognitive decline. The purpose of this study is to investigate the functional connectivity (FC) of the resting-state networks (RSNs) through resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), in order to gain insight into the neuropathological mechanism of ESRD. A total of 48 ESRD patients and 49 healthy controls underwent resting-state functional MRI and neuropsychological tests, for which Independent Components Analysis and graph-theory (GT) analysis were utilized. With the machine learning results, we examined the connections between RSNs abnormalities and neuropsychological test scores. Combining intra/inter network FC differences and GT results, ESRD was optimally distinguished in the testing dataset, with a balanced accuracy of 0.917 and area under curve (AUC) of 0.942. Shapley additive explanations results revealed that the increased functional network connectivity between DMN and left frontoparietal network (LFPN) was the most critical predictor for ESRD associated mild cognitive impairment diagnosis. Moreover, hypoSN (salience network) was positively correlated with Attention scores, while hyperLFPN was negatively correlated with Execution scores, indicating correlations between functional disruption and cognitive impairment measurements in ESRD patients. This study demonstrated that both the loss of FC within the SN and compensatory FC within the lateral frontoparietal network coexist in ESRD. This provides a network basis for understanding the individual brain circuits and offers additional noninvasive evidence to comprehend the brain networks in ESRD.", 
    "abstract": "Longitudinal studies have become more common in the past years due to their superiority over cross-sectional samples. In light of the ongoing replication crisis, the factors that may introduce variability in resting-state networks have been widely debated. This publication aimed to address the potential sources of variability, namely, time of day, sex, and age, in longitudinal studies within individual resting-state fMRI data. DCM was used to analyze the fMRI time series, extracting EC connectivity measures and parameters that define the BOLD signal. In addition, a two-way ANOVA was used to assess the change in EC and parameters that define the BOLD signal between data collection waves. The results indicate that time of day and gender have significant model evidence for the parameters that define the BOLD signal but not EC. From the ANOVA analysis, findings indicate that there was a significant change in the two nodes of the DMN and their connections with the fronto-parietal network. Overall, these findings suggest that in addition to age and gender, which are commonly accounted for in the fMRI data collection, studies should note the time of day, possibly treating it as a covariate in longitudinal samples.", 
    "abstract": "We aimed to evaluate the spontaneous neuronal activity and functional connectivity pattern variations using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) measures, such as amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF), and functional connectivity (FC), in patients with thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO).\nA total of 24 active TAO patients, 26 inactive TAO patients, and 27 matched healthy controls (HCs) were included. First, ALFF and fALFF were used to detect local neural activity changes, the MRI data were analyzed, and regions with group differences were taken as seeds. Second, FC analysis was performed to explore the altered connection between seeds and other brain regions. A correlation analysis was performed to assess the relationship between functional brain activity and clinical indices and neuropsychiatric behaviors.\nCompared to HCs, both active and inactive TAO patients exhibited significantly lower ALFF values in the right calcarine (Calcarine_R) and left postcentral gyrus (Postcentral_L). Active TAO patients also showed significantly higher ALFF values in the left caudate nucleus (Caudate_L) and increased fALFF values in the superior lobe of the right cerebellum (Cerebelum_Crus1_R). Moreover, both active and inactive TAO patients demonstrated decreased FC within the left postcentral gyrus (Postcentral_L) compared to HCs. Additionally, active TAO patients exhibited lower FC compared to inactive TAO patients. The ALFF values in the Calcarine_R of active TAO patients positively correlated with disease duration (r\u2009=\u20090.5892, \nWe found that the Caudate_L and Cerebelum_Crus1_R related to motor control and coordination in active TAO patients exhibit significant compensatory mechanisms; whereas, the Calcarine_R and Postcentral_L related to visual and somatosensory cortices show varying degrees of impairment. Our findings complement the functional neural mechanism of TAO.", 
    "abstract": "Glioblastoma, a highly aggressive form of brain tumor, is a brain-wide disease. We evaluated the impact of tumor burden on whole brain resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) activity. Specifically, we analyzed rs-fMRI signals in the temporal frequency domain in terms of the power-law exponent and fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF). We contrasted 189 patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma versus 189 age-matched healthy reference participants from an external dataset. The patient and reference datasets were matched for age and head motion. The principal finding was markedly flatter spectra and reduced grey matter fALFF in the patients as compared to the reference dataset. We posit that the whole-brain spectral change is attributable to global dysregulation of excitatory and inhibitory balance and metabolic demand in the tumor-bearing brain. Additionally, we observed that clinical comorbidities, in particular, seizures, and MGMT promoter methylation, were associated with flatter spectra. Notably, the degree of change in spectra was predictive of overall survival. Our findings suggest that frequency domain analysis of rs-fMRI activity provides prognostic information in glioblastoma patients and offers a means of noninvasively studying the effects of glioblastoma on the whole brain.", 
    "abstract": "There is increasing interest in investigating brain function based on functional connectivity networks (FCN) obtained from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). FCNs, typically obtained using measures of time series association such as Pearson's correlation, are sensitive to data acquisition parameters such as sampling period. This introduces non-neural variability in data pooled from different acquisition protocols and MRI scanners, negating the advantages of larger sample sizes in pooled data. To address this, we hypothesize that the topology or shape of brain networks must be preserved irrespective of how densely it is sampled, and metrics which capture this topology may be statistically similar across sampling periods, thereby alleviating this source of non-neural variability. Accordingly, we present an end-to-end pipeline that uses persistent homology (PH), a branch of topological data analysis, to demonstrate similarity across FCNs acquired at different temporal sampling periods. PH, as a technique, extracts topological features by capturing the network organization across all continuous threshold values, as opposed to graph theoretic methods, which fix a discrete network topology by thresholding the connectivity matrix. The extracted topological features are encoded in the form of persistent diagrams that can be compared against one another using the earth-moving metric, also popularly known as the Wasserstein distance. We extract topological features from three data cohorts, each acquired at different temporal sampling periods and demonstrate that these features are statistically the same, hence, empirically showing that PH may be robust to changes in data acquisition parameters such as sampling period.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) has been developed as a method of investigating spontaneous neural activity. Based on its low-frequency signal synchronization, rsfMRI has made it possible to identify multiple macroscopic structures termed resting-state networks (RSNs) on a single scan of less than 10\u2009minutes. It is easy to implement even in clinical practice, in which assigning tasks to patients can be challenging. These advantages have accelerated the adoption and growth of rsfMRI. Recently, studies on the global rsfMRI signal have attracted increasing attention. Because it primarily arises from physiological events, less attention has hitherto been paid to the global signal than to the local network (i.e., RSN) component. However, the global signal is not a mere nuisance or a subsidiary component. On the contrary, it is quantitatively the dominant component that accounts for most of the variance in the rsfMRI signal throughout the brain and provides rich information on local hemodynamics that can serve as an individual-level diagnostic biomarker. Moreover, spatiotemporal analyses of the global signal have revealed that it is closely and fundamentally associated with the organization of RSNs, thus challenging the basic assumptions made in conventional rsfMRI analyses and views on RSNs. This review introduces new concepts emerging from rsfMRI spatiotemporal analyses focusing on the global signal and discusses how they may contribute to future clinical medicine. EVIDENCE LEVEL: 5 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 1.", 
    "abstract": "Chemotherapy related cognitive impairment (CRCI) is a type of memory and cognitive impairment induced by chemotherapy and has become a growing clinical problem. Breast cancer survivors (BCs) refer to patients from the moment of breast cancer diagnosis to the end of their lives. Managing Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) is a convenient and easy-to-apply psychological intervention that has been proven to improve quality of life and alleviate CRCI in BCs. However, the underlying neurobiological mechanisms remain unclear. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has become an effective method for understanding the neurobiological mechanisms of brain networks in CRCI. The fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) and ALFF have often been used in analyzing the power and intensity of spontaneous regional resting state neural activity.\nThe recruited BCs were randomly divided into the CALM group and the care as usual (CAU) group. All BCs were evaluated by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog) before and after CALM or CAU. The rs-fMRI imaging was acquired before and after CALM intervention in CALM group BCs. The BCs were defined as before CALM intervention (BCI) group and after CALM intervention (ACI) group.\nThere were 32 BCs in CALM group and 35 BCs in CAU group completed the overall study. There were significant differences between the BCI group and the ACI group in the FACT-Cog-PCI scores. Compared with the BCI group, the ACI group showed lower fALFF signal in the left medial frontal gyrus and right sub-gyral and higher fALFF in the left occipital_sup and middle occipital gyrus. There was a significant positive correlation between hippocampal ALFF value and FACT-Cog-PCI scores.\nCALM intervention may have an effective function in alleviating CRCI of BCs. The altered local synchronization and regional brain activity may be correlated with the improved cognitive function of BCs who received the CALM intervention. The ALFF value of hippocampus seems to be an important factor in reflect cognitive function in BCs with CRCI and the neural network mechanism of CALM intervention deserves further exploration to promote its application.", 
    "abstract": "Integrated Information Theory was developed to explain and quantify consciousness, arguing that conscious systems consist of elements that are integrated through their causal properties. This study presents an implementation of Integrated Information Theory 3.0, the latest version of this framework, to functional MRI data. Data were acquired from 17 healthy subjects who underwent sedation with propofol, a short-acting anaesthetic. Using the PyPhi software package, we systematically analyze how \u03a6", 
    "abstract": "\u03a4o determine whole-brain and regional functional connectivity (FC) characteristics of patients with neuropsychiatric SLE (NPSLE) or without neuropsychiatric manifestations (non-NPSLE) and examine their association with cognitive performance.\nCross-recurrence quantification analysis (CRQA) of resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) data was performed in 44 patients with NPSLE, 20 patients without NPSLE and 35 healthy controls (HCs). Volumetric analysis of total brain and specific cortical and subcortical regions, where significant connectivity changes were identified, was performed. Cognitive status of patients with NPSLE was assessed by neuropsychological tests. Group comparisons on nodal FC, global network metrics and regional volumetrics were conducted, and associations with cognitive performance were estimated (at p<0.05 false discovery rate corrected).\nFC in patients with NPSLE was characterised by increased modularity (mean (SD)=0.31 (0.06)) as compared with HCs (mean (SD)=0.27 (0.06); p=0.05), hypoconnectivity of the left (mean (SD)=0.06 (0.018)) and right hippocampi (mean (SD)=0.051 (0.0.16)), and of the right amygdala (mean (SD)=0.091 (0.039)), as compared with HCs (mean (SD)=0.075 (0.022), p=0.02; 0.065 (0.019), p=0.01; 0.14 (0.096), p=0.05, respectively). Hyperconnectivity of the left angular gyrus (NPSLE/HCs: mean (SD)=0.29 (0.26) and 0.10 (0.09); p=0.01), left (NPSLE/HCs: mean (SD)=0.16 (0.09) and 0.09 (0.05); p=0.01) and right superior parietal lobule (SPL) (NPSLE/HCs: mean (SD)=0.25 (0.19) and 0.13 (0.13), p=0.01) was noted in NPSLE versus HC groups. Among patients with NPSLE, verbal episodic memory scores were positively associated with connectivity (local efficiency) of the left hippocampus (r\nBy using dynamic CRQA of the rs-fMRI data, distorted FC was found globally, as well as in medial temporal and parietal brain regions in patients with SLE, that correlated significantly and adversely with memory capacity in NPSLE. These results highlight the value of dynamic approaches to assessing impaired brain network function in patients with lupus with and without neuropsychiatric symptoms.", 
    "abstract": "Recent evidence suggests that broad brain regions, not limited to the fronto-striato-thalamo-cortical circuit, play an important role in motor response inhibition. However, it is still unclear which specific key brain region is responsible for impaired motor response inhibition observed in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We calculated the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) and measured response inhibition ability using the stop-signal task in 41 medication-free patients with OCD and 49 healthy control (HC) participants. We explored the brain region that shows different association between the fALFF and the ability of motor response inhibition. Significant differences in fALFF associated with the ability of motor response inhibition were identified in dorsal posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). There was a positive correlation between increased fALFF in the dorsal PCC and impaired motor response inhibition in OCD. In the HC group, there was a negative correlation between the two variables. Our results suggest that the magnitude of resting-state blood oxygen level-dependent oscillation of the dorsal PCC is a key brain region for the underlying mechanisms of impaired motor response inhibition in OCD. Future studies should examine whether this characteristic of dorsal PCC affects other large-scale networks responsible for motor response inhibition of OCD.", 
    "abstract": "Meningiomas are intracranial tumors that usually carry a benign prognosis. Some meningiomas cause perifocal edema. Resting-state fMRI can be used to assess whole-brain functional connectivity, which can serve as a marker for disease severity. Here, we investigated whether the presence of perifocal edema in preoperative patients with meningiomas leads to impaired functional connectivity and if these changes are associated with cognitive function.\nPatients with suspected meningiomas were prospectively included, and resting-state fMRI scans were obtained. Impairment of functional connectivity was quantified on a whole-brain level using our recently published resting-state fMRI-based marker, called the dysconnectivity index. Using uni- and multivariate regression models, we investigated the association of the dysconnectivity index with edema and tumor volume as well as cognitive test scores.\nTwenty-nine patients were included. In a multivariate regression analysis, there was a highly significant association of dysconnectivity index values and edema volume in the total sample and in a subsample of 14 patients with edema, when accounting for potential confounders like age and temporal SNR. There was no statistically significant association with tumor volume. Better neurocognitive performance was strongly associated with lower dysconnectivity index values.\nResting-state fMRI showed a significant association between impaired functional connectivity and perifocal edema, but not tumor volume, in patients with meningiomas. We demonstrated that better neurocognitive function was associated with less impairment of functional connectivity. This result shows that our resting-state fMRI marker indicates a detrimental influence of peritumoral brain edema on global functional connectivity in patients with meningiomas.", 
    "abstract": "Bipolar disorder may begin as depression or mania, which can affect the treatment and prognosis of bipolar disorder. However, the physiological and pathological differences of pediatric bipolar disorder (PBD) patients with different onset symptoms are not clear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences of clinical, cognitive function and intrinsic brain networks in PBD patients with first-episode depression and first-episode mania. A total of 63 participants, including 43 patients and 20 healthy controls, underwent resting-state fMRI scans. PBD patients were classified as first-episode depressive and first-episode manic based on their first-episode symptoms. Cognitive tests were used to measure attention and memory of all participants. Independent component analysis (ICA) was used to extract the salience network (SN), default-mode network (DMN), central executive network (ECN) and limbic network (LN) for each participant. Spearman rank correlation analysis was performed between abnormal activation and clinical and cognitive measures. The results showed that there were differences in cognitive functions such as attention and visual memory between first-episode depression and mania, as well as differences activation in anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), precuneus, inferior parietal cortex and parahippocampus. And significant associations of brain activity with clinical assessments or cognition were found in different patients. In conclusion, we found differential impairments in cognitive and brain network activation in first-episode depressive and first-episode manic PBD patients, and correlations were found between these impairments. These evidences may shed light on the different developmental paths of bipolar disorder.", 
    "abstract": "Brain activity is time varying and dynamic, even in the resting state. However, little attention has been paid to the dynamic alterations in regional brain activity in Parkinson's disease (PD). We aimed to test for differences in dynamic regional homogeneity (dReHo) between PD patients and healthy controls (HCs) and to further investigate the pathophysiological meaning of this altered dReHo in PD. We included 57 PD patients and 31 HCs with rs-fMRI scans and neuropsychological examinations. Then, ReHo and dReHo were calculated for all subjects. We compared ReHo and dReHo between PD patients and HCs and then analyzed the associations between altered dReHo variability and clinical/neuropsychological measurements. Support vector machines (SVMs) were also used to assist in differentiating PD patients from HCs using the classification values of dReHo. The results showed that PD patients had increased ReHo in the bilateral medial temporal lobe and decreased ReHo in the right posterior cerebellar lobe, right precentral gyrus, and supplementary motor area, compared with controls. The coefficient of variation (CV) of dReHo was considerably higher in the precuneus in PD patients compared with HCs, and the CV of dReHo in the precuneus was found to be highly associated with HAMD, HAMA, and NMSQ scores. Multiple linear regression analysis controlling for demographic, clinical, and neuropsychiatric variables confirmed the association between altered dReHo and HAMD. Using the leave-one-out cross validation procedure, 98% (", 
    "abstract": "Left-hemisphere intraparenchymal primary brain tumor patients are at risk of developing reading difficulties that may be stable, improve or deteriorate after surgery. Previous studies examining language organization in brain tumor patients have provided insights into neural plasticity supporting recovery. Only a single study, however, has examined the role of white matter tracts in preserving reading ability post-surgery and none have examined the functional reading network. The current study aimed to investigate the regional spontaneous brain activity associated with reading performance in a group of 36 adult patients 6-24 months following left-hemisphere tumor resection. Spontaneous brain activity was assessed using resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) regional homogeneity (ReHo) and fractional amplitude low frequency fluctuation (fALFF) metrics, which measure local functional connectivity and activity, respectively. ReHo in the left occipito-temporal and right superior parietal regions was negatively correlated with reading performance. fALFF in the putamen bilaterally and the left cerebellum was negatively correlated with reading performance, and positively correlated in the right superior parietal gyrus. These findings are broadly consistent with reading networks reported in healthy participants, indicating that reading ability following brain tumor surgery might not involve substantial functional re-organization.", 
    "abstract": "Cerebrovascular disease is a leading cause of death globally. Prevention and early intervention are known to be the most effective forms of its management. Non-invasive imaging methods hold great promises for early stratification, but at present lack the sensitivity for personalized prognosis. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), a powerful tool previously used for mapping neural activity, is available in most hospitals. Here we show that rs-fMRI can be used to map cerebral hemodynamic function and delineate impairment. By exploiting time variations in breathing pattern during rs-fMRI, deep learning enables reproducible mapping of cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) and bolus arrival time (BAT) of the human brain using resting-state CO", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) at ultra high-field strengths (\u22657T) is known to provide superior signal-to-noise and statistical power than comparable acquisitions at lower field strengths. In this study, we aim to provide a direct comparison of the seizure onset-zone (SOZ) lateralizing ability of 7T rs-fMRI and 3T rs-fMRI.\nWe investigated a cohort of 70 temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients. A paired cohort of 19 patients had 3T and 7T rs-fMRI acquisitions for direct comparison between the two field strengths. Forty-three patients had only 3T, and 8 patients had only 7T rs-fMRI acquisitions. We quantified the functional connectivity between the hippocampus and other nodes within the default mode network (DMN) using seed-to-voxel connectivity, and measured how hippocampo-DMN connectivity could inform SOZ lateralization at 7T and 3T field strengths.\nDifferences between hippocampo-DMN connectivity ipsilateral and contralateral to the SOZ were significantly higher at 7T (p\nWe show superior SOZ lateralization in TLE patients when using 7T relative to 3T rs-fMRI, supporting the adoption of high-field strength functional imaging in the epilepsy presurgical evaluation.", 
    "abstract": "In healthy aging, the way people cope differently with cognitive and neural decline is influenced by exposure to cognitively enriching life-experiences. Education is one of them, so that in general, the higher the education, the better the expected cognitive performance in aging. At the neural level, it is not clear yet how education can differentiate resting state functional connectivity profiles and their cognitive underpinnings. Thus, with this study, we aimed to investigate whether the variable education allowed for a finer description of age-related differences in cognition and resting state FC.\nWe analyzed in 197 healthy individuals (137 young adults aged 20-35 and 60 older adults aged 55-80 from the publicly available LEMON database), a pool of cognitive and neural variables, derived from magnetic resonance imaging, in relation to education. Firstly, we assessed age-related differences, by comparing young and older adults. Then, we investigated the possible role of education in outlining such differences, by splitting the group of older adults based on their education.\nIn terms of cognitive performance, older adults with higher education and young adults were comparable in language and executive functions. Interestingly, they had a wider vocabulary compared to young adults and older adults with lower education. Concerning functional connectivity, the results showed significant age- and education-related differences within three networks: the Visual-Medial, the Dorsal Attentional, and the Default Mode network (DMN). For the DMN, we also found a relationship with memory performance, which strengthen the evidence that this network has a specific role in linking cognitive maintenance and FC at rest in healthy aging.\nOur study revealed that education contributes to differentiating cognitive and neural profiles in healthy older adults. Also, the DMN could be a key network in this context, as it may reflect some compensatory mechanisms relative to memory capacities in older adults with higher education.", 
    "abstract": "Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is the leading cause of premature mortality among people with epilepsy. Evidence from witnessed and monitored SUDEP cases indicate seizure-induced cardiovascular and respiratory failures; yet, the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. SUDEP occurs often during the night and early morning hours, suggesting that sleep or circadian rhythm-induced changes in physiology contribute to the fatal event. Resting-state fMRI studies have found altered functional connectivity between brain structures involved in cardiorespiratory regulation in later SUDEP cases and in individuals at high-risk of SUDEP. However, those connectivity findings have not been related to changes in cardiovascular or respiratory patterns. Here, we compared fMRI patterns of brain connectivity associated with regular and irregular cardiorespiratory rhythms in SUDEP cases with those of living epilepsy patients of varying SUDEP risk, and healthy controls. We analysed resting-state fMRI data from 98 patients with epilepsy (9 who subsequently succumbed to SUDEP, 43 categorized as low SUDEP risk (no tonic-clonic seizures (TCS) in the year preceding the fMRI scan), and 46 as high SUDEP risk (>3 TCS in the year preceding the scan)) and 25 healthy controls. The global signal amplitude (GSA), defined as the moving standard deviation of the fMRI global signal, was used to identify periods with regular ('low state') and irregular ('high state') cardiorespiratory rhythms. Correlation maps were derived from seeds in twelve regions with a key role in autonomic or respiratory regulation, for the low and high states. Following principal component analysis, component weights were compared between the groups. We found widespread alterations in connectivity of precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex in epilepsy compared to controls, in the low state (regular cardiorespiratory activity). In the low state, and to a lesser degree in the high state, reduced anterior insula connectivity (mainly with anterior and posterior cingulate cortex) in epilepsy appeared, relative to healthy controls. For SUDEP cases, the insula connectivity differences were inversely related to the interval between the fMRI scan and death. The findings suggest that anterior insula connectivity measures may provide a biomarker of SUDEP risk. The neural correlates of autonomic brain structures associated with different cardiorespiratory rhythms may shed light on the mechanisms underlying terminal apnea observed in SUDEP.", 
    "abstract": "Neurophysiological investigations over the past decades have demonstrated the involvement of the primate insula in a wide array of sensory, cognitive, affective and regulatory functions, yet the complex functional organization of the insula remains unclear. Here we examined to what extent non-invasive task-based and resting-state fMRI provides support for functional specialization and integration of sensory and motor information in the macaque insula. Task-based fMRI experiments suggested a functional specialization related to processing of ingestive/taste/distaste information in anterior insula, grasping-related sensorimotor responses in middle insula and vestibular information in posterior insula. Visual stimuli depicting social information involving conspecific`s lip-smacking gestures yielded responses in middle and anterior portions of dorsal and ventral insula, overlapping partially with the sensorimotor and ingestive/taste/distaste fields. Functional specialization/integration of the insula was further corroborated by seed-based whole brain resting-state analyses, showing distinct functional connectivity gradients across the anterio-posterior extent of both dorsal and ventral insula. Posterior insula showed functional correlations in particular with vestibular/optic flow network regions, mid-dorsal insula with vestibular/optic flow as well as parieto-frontal regions of the sensorimotor grasping network, mid-ventral insula with social/affiliative network regions in temporal, cingulate and prefrontal cortices and anterior insula with taste and mouth motor networks including premotor and frontal opercular regions.", 
    "abstract": "Roughly 20-30% of patients with Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) fail to respond to central stimulant (CS) medication. Genetic, neuroimaging, biochemical and behavioral biomarkers for CS response have been investigated, but currently there are no biomarkers available for clinical use that help identify CS responders and non-responders.\nIn the present paper, we studied if incentive salience and hedonic experience evaluated after a single-dose CS medication could predict response and non-response to CS medication. We used a bipolar visual analogue 'wanting' and 'liking' scale to gauge incentive salience and hedonic experience in 25 healthy controls (HC) and 29 ADHD patients. HC received 30\u00a0mg methylphenidate (MPH) and ADHD patients received either MPH or lisdexamphetamine (LDX) as selected by their clinician, with dosage individually determined for optimal effect. Clinician-evaluated global impression - severity (CGI-S) and improvement (CGI-I) and patient-evaluated improvement (PGI-I) were used to assess response to CS medication. Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was conducted before and after single-dose CS to correlate wanting and liking scores to changes in functional connectivity.\nRoughly 20% of the ADHD patients were CS non-responders (5 of 29). CS responders had significantly higher incentive salience and hedonic experience scores compared to healthy controls and CS non-responders. Resting state fMRI showed that wanting scores were significantly associated to changes in functional connectivity in ventral striatum including nucleus accumbens.\nIncentive salience and hedonic experience evaluated after a single-dose CS medication segregate CS responders and non-responders, with corresponding neuroimaging biomarkers in the brain reward system.", 
    "abstract": "Post-stroke depression (PSD) is one of the most frequent psychiatric disorders after stroke. However, the underlying brain mechanism of PSD remains unclarified. Using the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) approach, we aimed to investigate the abnormalities of neural activity in PSD patients, and further explored the frequency and time properties of ALFF changes in PSD.\nResting-state fMRI data and clinical data were collected from 39 PSD patients (PSD), 82\u00a0S patients without depression (Stroke), and 74 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC). ALFF across three frequency bands (ALFF-Classic: 0.01-0.08\u00a0Hz; ALFF-Slow4: 0.027-0.073\u00a0Hz; ALFF-Slow5: 0.01-0.027\u00a0Hz) and dynamic ALFF (dALFF) were computed and compared among three groups. Ridge regression analyses and spearman's correlation analyses were further applied to explore the relationship between PSD-specific alterations and depression severity in PSD.\nWe found that PSD-specific alterations of ALFF were frequency-dependent and time-variant. Specially, compared to both Stroke and HC groups, PSD exhibited increased ALFF in the contralesional dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and insula in all three frequency bands. Increased ALFF in ipsilesional DLPFC were observed in both slow-4 and classic frequency bands which were positively correlated with depression scales in PSD, while increased ALFF in the bilateral hippocampus and contralesional rolandic operculum were only found in slow-5 frequency band. These PSD-specific alterations in different frequency bands could predict depression severity. Moreover, decreased dALFF in contralesional superior temporal gyrus were observed in PSD group.\nLongitudinal studies are required to explore the alterations of ALFF in PSD as the disease progress.\nThe frequency-dependent and time-variant properties of ALFF could reflect the PSD-specific alterations in complementary ways, which may assist to elucidate underlying neural mechanisms and be helpful for early diagnosis and interventions for the disease.", 
    "abstract": "The efficacy of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in the treatment of adolescents with treatment-refractory depression is still unsatisfactory, and the individual differences are large. It is not clear which factors are related to the treatment effect. Resting-state fMRI may be a good tool to predict the clinical efficacy of this treatment, and it is helpful to identify the most suitable population for this treatment.\nForty treatment-refractory depression adolescents were treated by ECT and evaluated using HAMD and BSSI scores before and after treatment, and were then divided into a treatment response group and a non-treatment group according to the reduction rate of the HAMD scale. We extracted the ALFF, fALFF, ReHo, and functional connectivity of patients as predicted features after a two-sample \nTwenty-seven patients achieved a clinical response; symptoms of depression and suicidal ideation were significantly improved after treatment with ECT, which was reflected in a significant decrease in the scores of HAMD and BSSI (\nThe local brain function in the insula, superior parietal gyrus, and angular gyrus as well as characteristic changes in the functional connectivity of cortical-limbic circuits may serve as potential markers for efficacy judgment of ECT and help to provide optimized individual treatment strategies for adolescents with depression and suicidal ideation in the early stages of treatment.", 
    "abstract": "The use of shorter TR and finer atlases in rs-fMRI can provide greater detail on brain function and anatomy. However, there is limited understanding of the effect of this combination on brain network properties.\nA study was conducted with 20 healthy young volunteers who underwent rs-fMRI scans with both shorter (0.5s) and long (2s) TR. Two atlases with different degrees of granularity (90 vs 200 regions) were used to extract rs-fMRI signals. Several network metrics, including small-worldness, Cp, Lp, Eloc, and Eg, were calculated. Two-factor ANOVA and two-sample t-tests were conducted for both the single spectrum and five sub-frequency bands.\nThe network constructed using the combination of shorter TR and finer atlas showed significant enhancements in Cp, Eloc, and Eg, as well as reductions in Lp and \u03b3 in both the single spectrum and subspectrum (\nOur findings suggest that the use of shorter TR and finer atlas can positively affect the topological characteristics of brain networks. These insights can inform the development of brain network construction methods.", 
    "abstract": "A variety of quality control (QC) approaches are employed in resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) to determine data quality and ultimately inclusion or exclusion of a fMRI data set in group analysis. Reliability of rs-fMRI data can be improved by censoring or \"scrubbing\" volumes affected by motion. While censoring preserves the integrity of participant-level data, including excessively censored data sets in group analyses may add noise. Quantitative motion-related metrics are frequently reported in the literature; however, qualitative visual inspection can sometimes catch errors or other issues that may be missed by quantitative metrics alone. In this paper, we describe our methods for performing QC of rs-fMRI data using software-generated quantitative and qualitative output and trained visual inspection.\nThe data provided for this QC paper had relatively low motion-censoring, thus quantitative QC resulted in no exclusions. Qualitative checks of the data resulted in limited exclusions due to potential incidental findings and failed pre-processing scripts.\nVisual inspection in addition to the review of quantitative QC metrics is an important component to ensure high quality and accuracy in rs-fMRI data analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Epilepsy is defined as non-lesional (NLE) when a lesion cannot be localized via standard neuroimaging. NLE is known to have a poor response to surgery. Stereotactic electroencephalography (sEEG) can detect functional connectivity (FC) between zones of seizure onset (OZ) and early (ESZ) and late (LSZ) spread. We examined whether resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) can detect FC alterations in NLE to see whether noninvasive imaging techniques can localize areas of seizure propagation to potentially target for intervention.\nThis is a retrospective study of 8 patients with refractory NLE who underwent sEEG electrode implantation and 10 controls. The OZ, ESZ, and LSZ were identified by generating regions around sEEG contacts that recorded seizure activity. Amplitude synchronization analysis was used to detect the correlation of the OZ to the ESZ. This was also done using the OZ and ESZ of each NLE patient for each control. Patients with NLE were compared to controls individually using Wilcoxon tests and as a group using Mann-Whitney tests. Amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF), fractional ALFF (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), degree of centrality (DoC), and voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) were calculated as the difference between NLE and controls and compared between the OZ and ESZ and to zero. A general linear model was used with age as a covariate with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons.\nFive out of 8 patients with NLE showed decreased correlations from the OZ to the ESZ. Group analysis showed patients with NLE had lower connectivity with the ESZ. Patients with NLE showed higher fALFF and ReHo in the OZ but not the ESZ, and higher DoC in the OZ and ESZ. Our results indicate that patients with NLE show high levels of activity but dysfunctional connections in seizure-related areas.\nrsfMRI analysis showed decreased connectivity directly between seizure-related areas, while FC metric analysis revealed increases in local and global connectivity in seizure-related areas. FC analysis of rsfMRI can detect functional disruption that may expose the pathophysiology underlying NLE.", 
    "abstract": "Over the past years, research has shown that primary (high callousness and low anxiety) and secondary (high callousness and anxiety) variants of CU traits may be associated with opposite amygdala activity (hypo- and hyper-reactivity, respectively). However, their differences in amygdala functional connectivity remains largely unexplored. We conducted a Latent Profile Analysis on a large sample of adolescents (n\u00a0=\u00a01416) to identify homogeneous subgroups with different levels of callousness and anxiety. We then performed a seed-to-voxel connectivity analysis on resting-state fMRI data to compare subgroups on connectivity patterns of the amygdala. We examined the results in relation to conduct problems to identify potential neural risk factors. The Latent Profile Analysis revealed four subgroups, including the primary and secondary variants, anxious, and typically developing adolescents. The seed-to-voxel analyses showed that the primary variant was mainly characterized by increased connectivity between the left amygdala and left thalamus. The secondary variant exhibited deficient connectivity between the amygdala and the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, temporo-parietal junction, premotor, and postcentral gyrus. Both variants showed increased connectivity between the left amygdala and the right thalamus but exhibited opposite functional connectivity between the left amygdala and the parahippocampal gyrus. Dimensional analyses indicated that conduct problems may play a mediating role between callousness and amygdala-dmPFC functional connectivity across youths with already high levels of callousness. Our study highlights that both variants differ in the functional connectivity of the amygdala. Our results support the importance of disentangling the heterogeneity of adolescents at risk for conduct problems in neuroimaging.", 
    "abstract": "Despite node-centric studies revealing an association between resting-state functional connectivity and individual risk propensity, the prediction of future risk decisions remains undetermined. Herein, we applied a recently emerging edge-centric method, the edge community similarity network (ECSN), to alternatively describe the community structure of resting-state brain activity and to probe its contribution to predicting risk propensity during gambling. Results demonstrated that inter-individual variability of risk decisions correlates with the inter-subnetwork couplings spanning the visual network (VN) and default mode network (DMN), cingulo-opercular task control network, and sensory/somatomotor hand network (SSHN). Particularly, participants who have higher community similarity of these subnetworks during the resting state tend to choose riskier and higher yielding bets. And in contrast to low-risk propensity participants, those who behave high-risky show stronger couplings spanning the VN and SSHN/DMN. Eventually, based on the resting-state ECSN properties, the risk rate during the gambling task is effectively predicted by the multivariable linear regression model at the individual level. These findings provide new insights into the neural substrates of the inter-individual variability in risk propensity and new neuroimaging metrics to predict individual risk decisions in advance.", 
    "abstract": "Humans recognize one another by identifying their voices and faces. For sighted people, the integration of voice and face signals in corresponding brain networks plays an important role in facilitating the process. However, individuals with vision loss primarily resort to voice cues to recognize a person's identity. It remains unclear how the neural systems for voice recognition reorganize in the blind. In the present study, we collected behavioral and resting-state fMRI data from 20 early blind (5 females; mean age = 22.6 years) and 22 sighted control (7 females; mean age = 23.7 years) individuals. We aimed to investigate the alterations in the resting-state functional connectivity (FC) among the voice- and face-sensitive areas in blind subjects in comparison with controls. We found that the intranetwork connections among voice-sensitive areas, including amygdala-posterior \"temporal voice areas\" (TVAp), amygdala-anterior \"temporal voice areas\" (TVAa), and amygdala-inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) were enhanced in the early blind. The blind group also showed increased FCs of \"fusiform face area\" (FFA)-IFG and \"occipital face area\" (OFA)-IFG but decreased FCs between the face-sensitive areas (i.e., FFA and OFA) and TVAa. Moreover, the voice-recognition accuracy was positively related to the strength of TVAp-FFA in the sighted, and the strength of amygdala-FFA in the blind. These findings indicate that visual deprivation shapes functional connectivity by increasing the intranetwork connections among voice-sensitive areas while decreasing the internetwork connections between the voice- and face-sensitive areas. Moreover, the face-sensitive areas are still involved in the voice-recognition process in blind individuals through pathways such as the subcortical-occipital or occipitofrontal connections, which may benefit the visually impaired greatly during voice processing.", 
    "abstract": "Migraine is a common, chronic dysfunctional disease with recurrent headaches. Its etiology and pathogenesis have not been fully understood and there is a lack of objective diagnostic criteria and biomarkers. Meanwhile, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) is increasingly being used in migraine research to classify and diagnose brain disorders. However, the RS-fMRI data is characterized by a large amount of data information and the difficulty of extracting high-dimensional features, which brings great challenges to relevant studies. In this paper, we proposed an automatic recognition framework based on static functional connectivity (sFC) strength features and dynamic functional connectome pattern (DFCP) features of migraine sufferers and normal control subjects, in which we firstly extracted sFC strength and DFCP features and then selected the optimal features using the recursive feature elimination based on the support vector machine (SVM-RFE) algorithm and, finally, trained and tested a classifier with the support vector machine (SVM) algorithm. In addition, we compared the classification performance of only using sFC strength features and DFCP features, respectively. The results showed that the DFCP features significantly outperformed sFC strength features in performance, which indicated that DFCP features had a significant advantage over sFC strength features in classification. In addition, the combination of sFC strength and DFCP features had the optimal performance, which demonstrated that the combination of both features could make full use of their advantage. The experimental results suggested the method had good performance in differentiating migraineurs and our proposed classification framework might be applicable for other mental disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in the loss of motor and sensory function from disconnections between efferent and afferent pathways. Most SCI patients are affected with chronic neuropathic pain, but there is a paucity of data concerning neuroplastic changes following SCI. Chronic pain disrupts default networks and is associated with abnormal insular connectivity. The posterior insula (PI) is associated with the degree of pain and intensity of pain. The anterior insula (AI) is related to signal changes. Comprehension of SCI pain mechanisms is essential to elucidate effective treatment options.\nThis study examines the insular gyri functional connectivity (FC) of seven (five male, two female) SCI participants with moderate-severe chronic pain compared to 10 (five\u00a0male, five female) healthy controls (HC). All subjects had 3-Tesla MRI performed and resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) was acquired. FC metrics were obtained from the comparisons of resting-state fMRI among our various groups. A seed-to-voxel analysis was pursued, encompassing six gyri of the insula. For multiple comparisons, a correction was applied with a significance level of p\u00a0<\u00a0.05.\nThere were significant differences in FC of the insula between SCI participants with chronic pain compared with HC. In the SCI participants, there was hyperconnectivity of the AI and PI to the frontal pole. In addition, there was increased FC noted between the PI and the anterior cingulate cortex. Hyperconnectivity was also observed between the AI and the occipital cortex.\nThese findings illustrate that there is a complex hyperconnectivity and modulation of pain pathways after traumatic SCI.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Epilepsy is considered as a neural network disorder. Seizure activity in epilepsy may disturb brain networks and damage brain functions. We propose using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data to characterize connectivity patterns in drug-resistant epilepsy.\nThis study enrolled 47 participants, including 28 with drug-resistant epilepsy and 19 healthy controls. Functional and effective connectivity was employed to assess drug-resistant epilepsy patients within resting state networks. The resting state functional connectivity (FC) analysis was performed to assess connectivity between each patient and healthy controls within the default mode network (DMN) and the dorsal attention network (DAN). In addition, dynamic causal modeling was used to compute effective connectivity (EC). Finally, a statistical analysis was performed to evaluate our findings.\nThe FC analysis revealed significant connectivity changes in patients giving 64.3% (18/28) and 78.6% (22/28) for DMN and DAN, respectively. Statistical analysis of FC was significant between the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, and bilateral inferior parietal cortex for DMN. For DAN, it was significant between the left and the right intraparietal sulcus and the frontal eye field. For the DMN, the patient group showed significant EC connectivity in the right inferior parietal cortex and the medial prefrontal cortex for the DMN. There was also bilateral connectivity between the medial prefrontal cortex and the posterior cingulate cortex, as well as between the left and right inferior parietal cortex. For DAN, patients showed significant connectivity in the right frontal eye field and the right intraparietal sulcus. Bilateral connectivity was also found between the left frontal eye field and the left intraparietal sulcus, as well as between the right frontal eye field and the right intraparietal sulcus. The statistical analysis of the EC revealed a significant result in the medial prefrontal cortex and the right intraparietal cortex for the DMN. The DAN was found significant in the left frontal eye field, as well as the left and right intraparietal sulcus.\nOur results provide preliminary evidence to support that the combination of functional and effective connectivity analysis of rs-fMRI can aid in diagnosing epilepsy in the DMN and DAN networks.", 
    "abstract": "Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) is a common treatment for heroin use disorder (HUD). Although individuals with HUD have been reported to show impaired coupling among the salience network (SN), executive control network (ECN), and default mode network (DMN), the effects of MMT on the coupling among three large-scale networks in individuals with HUD remains unclear.\nThirty-seven individuals with HUD undergoing MMT and 57 healthy controls were recruited. The longitudinal one-year follow-up study aimed to evaluate the effects of methadone on anxiety, depression, withdrawal symptoms and craving and number of relapse, and brain function (SN, DMN and bilateral ECN) in relation to heroin dependence. The changes in psychological characteristics and the coupling among large-scale networks after 1\u2009year of MMT were analyzed. The associations between the changes in coupling among large-scale networks and psychological characteristics and the methadone dose were also examined.\nAfter 1\u2009year of MMT, individuals with HUD showed a reduction in the withdrawal symptom score. The number of relapses was negatively correlated with the methadone dose over 1\u2009year. The functional connectivity between the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG; both key nodes of the DMN) was increased, and the connectivities between the mPFC and the anterior insular and middle frontal gyrus (key nodes of the SN) were also increased. The mPFC-left MTG connectivity was negatively correlated with the withdrawal symptom score.\nLong-term MMT enhanced the connectivity within the DMN which might be related to reduced withdrawal symptoms, and that between the DMN and SN which might be related to increase in salience values of heroin cues in individuals with HUD. Long-term MMT may be a double-edged sword in treatment for HUD.", 
    "abstract": "Reducing contributions from non-neuronal sources is a crucial step in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) connectivity analyses. Many viable strategies for denoising fMRI are used in the literature, and practitioners rely on denoising benchmarks for guidance in the selection of an appropriate choice for their study. However, fMRI denoising software is an ever-evolving field, and the benchmarks can quickly become obsolete as the techniques or implementations change. In this work, we present a denoising benchmark featuring a range of denoising strategies, datasets and evaluation metrics for connectivity analyses, based on the popular fMRIprep software. The benchmark is implemented in a fully reproducible framework, where the provided research objects enable readers to reproduce or modify core computations, as well as the figures of the article using the Jupyter Book project and the Neurolibre reproducible preprint server (https://neurolibre.org/). We demonstrate how such a reproducible benchmark can be used for continuous evaluation of research software, by comparing two versions of the fMRIprep software package. The majority of benchmark results were consistent with prior literature. Scrubbing, a technique which excludes time points with excessive motion, combined with global signal regression, is generally effective at noise removal. Scrubbing however disrupts the continuous sampling of brain images and is incompatible with some statistical analyses, e.g. auto-regressive modeling. In this case, a simple strategy using motion parameters, average activity in select brain compartments, and global signal regression should be preferred. Importantly, we found that certain denoising strategies behave inconsistently across datasets and/or versions of fMRIPrep, or had a different behavior than in previously published benchmarks. This work will hopefully provide useful guidelines for the fMRIprep users community, and highlight the importance of continuous evaluation of research methods. Our reproducible benchmark infrastructure will facilitate such continuous evaluation in the future, and may also be applied broadly to different tools or even research fields.", 
    "abstract": "The dual-stream model of speech processing has been proposed to represent the cortical networks involved in speech comprehension and production. Although it is arguably the prominent neuroanatomical model of speech processing, it is not yet known if the dual-stream model represents actual intrinsic functional brain networks. Furthermore, it is unclear how disruptions after a stroke to the functional connectivity of the dual-stream model's regions are related to specific types of speech production and comprehension impairments seen in aphasia. To address these questions, in the present study, we examined two independent resting-state fMRI datasets: (1) 28 neurotypical matched controls and (2) 28 chronic left-hemisphere stroke survivors with aphasia collected at another site. Structural MRI, as well as language and cognitive behavioral assessments, were collected. Using standard functional connectivity measures, we successfully identified an intrinsic resting-state network amongst the dual-stream model's regions in the control group. We then used both standard functional connectivity analyses and graph theory approaches to determine how the functional connectivity of the dual-stream network differs in individuals with post-stroke aphasia, and how this connectivity may predict performance on clinical aphasia assessments. Our findings provide strong evidence that the dual-stream model is an intrinsic network as measured via resting-state MRI, and that weaker functional connectivity of the hub nodes of the dual-stream network defined by graph theory methods, but not overall average network connectivity, is weaker in the stroke group than in the control participants. Also, the functional connectivity of the hub nodes predicted specific types of impairments on clinical assessments. In particular, the relative strength of connectivity of the right hemisphere's homologues of the left dorsal stream hubs to the left dorsal hubs versus right ventral stream hubs is a particularly strong predictor of post-stroke aphasia severity and symptomology.", 
    "abstract": "[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2023.1139086.].", 
    "abstract": "Although stratifying autism spectrum disorder (ASD) into different subtypes is a common effort in the research field, few papers have characterized the functional connectivity alterations of ASD subgroups classified by their clinical presentations.\nThis is a case-control rs-fMRI study, based on large samples of open database (Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange, ABIDE). The rs-MRI data from n\u00a0=\u00a0415 ASD patients (males n\u00a0=\u00a0357), and n\u00a0=\u00a0574 typical development (TD) controls (males n\u00a0=\u00a0410) were included. Clinical features of ASD were extracted and classified using data from each patient's Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) evaluation. Each subtype of ASD was characterized by local functional connectivity using regional homogeneity (ReHo) for assessment, remote functional connectivity using voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) for assessment, the whole-brain functional connectivity, and graph theoretical features. These identified imaging properties from each subtype were integrated to create a machine learning model for classifying ASD patients into the subtypes based on their rs-fMRI data, and an independent dataset was used to validate the model.\nAll ASD participants were classified into Cluster-1 (patients with more severe impairment) and Cluster-2 (patients with moderate impairment) according to the dimensional scores of ADI-R. When compared to the TD group, Cluster-1 demonstrated increased local connection and decreased remote connectivity, and widespread hyper- and hypo-connectivity variations in the whole-brain functional connectivity. Cluster-2 was quite similar to the TD group in both local and remote connectivity. But at the level of whole-brain functional connectivity, the MCC-related connections were specifically impaired in Cluster-2. These properties of functional connectivity were fused to build a machine learning model, which achieved \u223c75% for identifying ASD subtypes (Cluster-1 accuracy = 81.75%; Cluster-2 accuracy = 76.48%).\nThe stratification of ASD by clinical presentations can help to minimize disease heterogeneity and highlight the distinguished properties of brain connectivity in ASD subtypes.", 
    "abstract": "The prevalence of stroke-induced cognitive impairment is high. Effective approaches to the treatment of these cognitive impairments after stroke remain a serious and perhaps underestimated challenge. A BCI-based task-focused training that results in repetitive recruitment of the normal motor or cognitive circuits may strengthen stroke-affected neuronal connectivity, leading to functional improvements. In the present controlled study, we attempted to evaluate the modulation of neuronal circuits under the influence of 10 days of training in a P3-based BCI speller in subacute ischemic stroke patients.", 
    "abstract": "Evidence from functional and structural research suggests that abnormal brain activity plays an important role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia (SZ). However, limited studies have focused on post-treatment changes, and current conclusions are inconsistent.\nWe recruited 104 SZ patients to have resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans at baseline and 8 weeks of treatment with second-generation antipsychotics, along with baseline scanning of 86 healthy controls (HCs) for comparison purposes. Individual regional homogeneity (ReHo), amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF), and degree centrality values were calculated to evaluate the functional activity. The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery were applied to measure psychiatric symptoms and cognitive impairment in SZ patients.\nCompared with HCs at baseline, SZ patients had higher ALFF and ReHo values in the bilateral inferior temporal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, and lower ALFF and ReHo values in fusiform gyrus and precuneus. Following 8 weeks of treatment, ReHo was increased in right medial region of the superior frontal gyrus (SFGmed) and decreased in the left middle occipital gyrus and the left postcentral gyrus. Meanwhile, ReHo of the right SFGmed was increased after treatment in the response group (the reduction rate of PANSS \u226550%). Enhanced ALFF in the dorsolateral of SFG correlated with improvement in depressive factor score.\nThese findings provide novel evidence for the abnormal functional activity hypothesis of SZ, suggesting that abnormality of right SFGmed can be used as a biomarker of treatment response in SZ.", 
    "abstract": "How brain neural activity changes at multiple time points throughout the day and the neural mechanisms underlying time-dependent modulation of vigilance are less clear.\nTo explore the effect of circadian rhythms and homeostasis on brain neural activity and the potential neural basis of time-dependent modulation of vigilance.\nProspective.\nA total of 30 healthy participants (22-27\u2009years old).\nA 3.0\u2009T, T1-weighted imaging, echo-planar functional MRI (fMRI).\nSix resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) scanning sessions were performed at fixed times (9:00\u2009h, 13:00\u2009h, 17:00\u2009h, 21:00\u2009h, 1:00\u2009h, and 5:00\u2009h) to investigate fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) diurnal variation. The fALFF/ReHo and the result of the psychomotor vigilance task were used to assess local neural activity and vigilance.\nOne-way repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to assess changes in vigilance (P\u2009<\u20090.05) and neural activity in the whole brain (P\u2009<\u20090.001 at the voxel level and P\u2009<\u20090.01 at the cluster level, Gaussian random field [GRF] corrected). Correlation analysis was used to examine the relationship between neural activity and vigilance at all-time points of the day.\nThe fALFF/ReHo in the thalamus and some perceptual cortices tended to increase from 9:00\u2009h to 13:00\u2009h and from 21:00\u2009h to 5:00\u2009h, whereas the key nodes of the default mode network (DMN) tended to decrease from 21:00\u2009h to 5:00\u2009h. The vigilance tended to decrease from 21:00\u2009h to 5:00\u2009h. The fALFF/ReHo in the thalamus and some perceptual cortices was negatively correlated with vigilance at all-time points of the day, whereas the fALFF/ReHo in the key nodes of the DMN was positively correlated with vigilance.\nNeural activities in the thalamus and some perceptual cortices show similar trends throughout the day, whereas the key nodes of the DMN show roughly opposite trends. Notably, diurnal variation of the neural activity in these brain regions may be an adaptive or compensatory response to changes in vigilance.\n1.\n1.", 
    "abstract": "To explore the brain effect mechanism and the correlation between brain functional imaging and cognitive function in treatment of depressive disorder (DD) with transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) based on the resting-state functional magenetic reasonance imaging (rs-fMRI).\nThirty-two DD patients were included in a depression group and 32 subjects of healthy condition were enrolled in a normal group. In the depression group, the taVNS was applied to bilateral Xin (CO\nThe scores of HAMD and HAMA in the depression group were all higher than those in the normal group (\nThe taVNS can modulate the intensity of the functional activities of some brain regions so as to relieve depressive symptoms and improve cognitive function.", 
    "abstract": "Diabetes mellitus is one of the major chronic diseases, which enhances the risk of erectile dysfunction. However, the central pathological mechanisms of erectile dysfunction in diabetes mellitus patients are still unclear.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data were acquired in 30 type-2 diabetes mellitus, 31 type-2 diabetes mellitus with erectile dysfunction patients, and 31 healthy controls. The measure of fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation was calculated and compared among groups.\nDifferences of fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation values were found in the left superior frontal gyrus (medial) and middle temporal gyrus among three groups. Compared with healthy controls group, type-2 diabetes mellitus group exhibited lower fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation values in the left superior frontal gyrus (dorsolateral), anterior cingulate gyrus, calcarine fissure, and increased fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation values in the left post-central gyrus. Compared with healthy controls group, erectile dysfunction with type-2 diabetes mellitus group exhibited lower fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation values in the left superior frontal gyrus (medial), middle temporal gyrus, temporal middle (pole), and increased fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation values in the right post-central gyrus. Compared with type-2 diabetes mellitus group, erectile dysfunction with type-2 diabetes mellitus group exhibited increased fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation values in the right median cingulum gyrus and left calcarine fissure.\nErectile dysfunction with type-2 diabetes mellitus patients showed functional changes in brain regions that were closely correlated with sexual dysfunction, which suggested that altered regional brain activity might be related to the pathophysiology of erectile dysfunction with type-2 diabetes mellitus.", 
    "abstract": "Neuroimaging techniques have been widely adopted to detect the neurological brain structures and functions of the nervous system. As an effective noninvasive neuroimaging technique, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been extensively used in computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) of mental disorders, e.g., autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In this study, we propose a spatial-temporal co-attention learning (STCAL) model for diagnosing ASD and ADHD from fMRI data. In particular, a guided co-attention (GCA) module is developed to model the intermodal interactions of spatial and temporal signal patterns. A novel sliding cluster attention module is designed to address global feature dependency of self-attention mechanism in fMRI time series. Comprehensive experimental results demonstrate that our STCAL model can achieve competitive accuracies of 73.0 \u00b1 4.5%, 72.0 \u00b1 3.8%, and 72.5 \u00b1 4.2% on the ABIDE I, ABIDE II, and ADHD-200 datasets, respectively. Moreover, the potential for feature pruning based on the co-attention scores is validated by the simulation experiment. The clinical interpretation analysis of STCAL can allow medical professionals to concentrate on the discriminative regions of interest and key time frames from fMRI data.", 
    "abstract": "Structural and functional changes in the brain have been identified in individuals with medication-overuse headache (MOH) using MRI. However, it has not been clearly established whether neurovascular dysfunction occurs in MOH, which could be elucidated by examining neurovascular coupling (NVC) from the viewpoints of neuronal activity and cerebral blood flow. The aim of this study was to investigate potential alterations in NVC function of the brain in individuals with MOH using resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) and 3D pseudo-continuous arterial spin labeling (3D PCASL) imaging techniques.\nA total of 40 patients with MOH and 32 normal controls (NCs) were recruited, and rs-fMRI and 3D PCASL data were obtained using a 3.0 T MR scanner. Standard preprocessing of the rs-fMRI data was performed to generate images representing regional homogeneity (ReHo), fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF), and degree centrality (DC); cerebral blood flow (CBF) images were generated using 3D PCASL sequence data. These functional maps were all normalized into Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) space, and NVC was subsequently determined on the basis of Pearson correlation coefficients between the rs-fMRI maps (ReHo, fALFF, and DC) and CBF maps. The statistical significance of differences between the MOH and NC groups in terms of NVC in different brain regions was established \nNVC mainly presented a negative correlation in patients with MOH and NCs. No significant difference between the two groups was detected in terms of average NVC over the entire gray matter area. However, several brain regions with significantly decreased NVC in patients with MOH compared to NCs were identified: the left orbital region of the superior frontal gyrus, the bilateral gyrus rectus, and the olfactory cortex (\nThe current study demonstrated that cerebral NVC dysfunction occurs in patients with MOH, and the NVC technique could function as a new imaging biomarker in headache research.", 
    "abstract": "Deficits in executive functions (EF) and social cognition (SC) are often observed in bipolar disorder (BD), leading to a severe impairment in engaging a functional interaction with the others and the surrounding environment. Therefore, in recent years, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) studies on BD tried to identify the neural underpinnings of these cognitive domains by exploring the association between the intrinsic functional connectivity (FC) and the scores in clinical scales evaluating these domains.\nA bibliographic search on PubMed and Scopus of studies evaluating the correlations between rs-fMRI findings and EF and/or SC in BD was conducted until March 2022. Ten studies met the inclusion criteria.\nOverall, the results of the reviewed studies showed that BD patients had FC deficits compared to healthy controls (HC) in selective resting-state networks involved in EF and SC, which include the default mode network, especially the link between medial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate cortex, and the sensory-motor network. Finally, it also emerged the predominant role of alterations in prefrontal connections in explaining the cognitive deficits in BD patients.\nThe heterogeneity of the reviewed studies, in terms of the cognitive domains explored and the neuroimaging acquisitions employed, limited the comparability of the findings.\nrs-fMRI studies could help deepen the brain network alterations underlying EF and SC deficits in BD, pointing the attention on the neuronal underpinning of cognition, whose knowledge may lead to the development of new neurobiological-based approaches to improve the quality of life of these patients.", 
    "abstract": "Studies have revealed that the language network of Broca's area and Wernicke's area is modulated by factors such as disease, gender, aging, and handedness. However, how occupational factors modulate the language network remains unclear.\nIn this study, taking professional seafarers as an example, we explored the resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) of the language network with seeds (the original and flipped Broca's area and Wernicke's area).\nThe results showed seafarers had weakened RSFC of Broca's area with the left superior/middle frontal gyrus and left precentral gyrus, and enhanced RSFC of Wernicke's area with the cingulate and precuneus. Further, seafarers had a less right-lateralized RSFC with Broca's area in the left inferior frontal gyrus, while the controls showed a left-lateralized RSFC pattern in Broca's area and a right-lateralized one in Wernicke's area. Moreover, seafarers displayed stronger RSFC with the left seeds of Broca's area and Wernicke's area.\nThese findings suggest that years of working experience significantly modulates the RSFC of language networks and their lateralization, providing rich insights into language networks and occupational neuroplasticity.", 
    "abstract": "The identification of homogeneous subgroups of patients with psychiatric disorders can play an important role in achieving personalized medicine and is essential to provide insights for understanding neuropsychological mechanisms of various mental disorders. The functional connectivity profiles obtained from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data have been shown to be unique to each individual, similar to fingerprints; however, their use in characterizing psychiatric disorders in a clinically useful way is still being studied. In this work, we propose a framework that makes use of functional activity maps for subgroup identification using the Gershgorin disc theorem. The proposed pipeline is designed to analyze a large-scale multi-subject fMRI dataset with a fully data-driven method, a new constrained independent component analysis algorithm based on entropy bound minimization (c-EBM), followed by an eigenspectrum analysis approach. A set of resting-state network (RSN) templates is generated from an independent dataset and used as constraints for c-EBM. The constraints present a foundation for subgroup identification by establishing a connection across the subjects and aligning subject-wise separate ICA analyses. The proposed pipeline was applied to a dataset comprising 464 psychiatric patients and discovered meaningful subgroups. Subjects within the identified subgroups share similar activation patterns in certain brain areas. The identified subgroups show significant group differences in multiple meaningful brain areas including dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex. Three sets of cognitive test scores were used to verify the identified subgroups, and most of them showed significant differences across subgroups, which provides further confirmation of the identified subgroups. In summary, this work represents an important step forward in using neuroimaging data to characterize mental disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Idiopathic congenital nystagmus (CN) is a rare eye disease that can cause early blindness (EB). CN deficits are observed most frequently with oculomotor dysfunction; however, it is still unclear what neuromechanics underly CN with EB. Based on that visual experience requires the functional integration of both hemispheres, we hypothesized that CN adolescents with EB might exhibit impaired interhemispheric synchrony. Our study aimed to investigate the interhemispheric functional connectivity alterations using voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) and their relationships with clinical features in CN patients.\nThis study included 21 patients with CN and EB, and 21 sighted controls (SC), who were matched for sex, age and educational level. The 3.0 T MRI scan and ocular examination were performed. The VMHC differences were examined between the two groups, and the relationships between mean VMHC values in altered brain regions and clinical variables in the CN group were evaluated by Pearson correlation analysis.\nCompared with the SC group, the CN had increased VMHC values in the bilateral cerebellum posterior and anterior lobes/cerebellar tonsil/declive/pyramis/culmen/pons, middle frontal gyri (BA 10) and frontal eye field/superior frontal gyri (BA 6 and BA 8). No particular areas of the brain had lower VMHC values. Furthermore, no correlation with the duration of disease or blindness could be demonstrated in CN.\nOur results suggest the existence of interhemispheric connectivity changes and provide further evidence for the neurological basis of CN with EB.", 
    "abstract": "Central precocious puberty (CPP) patients are at significantly higher risk of emotional, mental, and behavioral disorders than those normal pubertal population. However, to date, the definite mechanism of how puberty hormones affect patients with CPP remains unclear. This regional homogeneity (ReHo) study aimed to explore the impact of premature hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis activation on brain function alteration in girls with CPP, meanwhile, to explore the relationship between gonadotropin and gonadal hormones levels, abnormal brain activity and cognitive function.\nIn this prospective study, a total of 85 girls who were suspected of having CPP were enrolled from the Child Healthcare Department of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University Hospital from June 2018 to May 2021, including 41 CPP girls and 44 non-CPP girls. All participants collected the 0, 30, 60\u00a0min blood luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), 0, 30\u00a0min estradiol (E2) and baseline cortisol (COR) and prolactin (PRL) concentrations after gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) stimulating test. Resting-state magnetic resonance imaging (rs-MRI) scans were performed for all participants at 2\u00a0weeks before the GnRH stimulating test, voxel-wise ReHo was calculated in the standard frequency band (0.01-0.10\u00a0Hz), and in slow-4 (0.027-0.073\u00a0Hz) and slow-5 (0.01-0.027\u00a0Hz). Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children Fourth Edition (WISC-IV) was also collected. Independent-sample t-test or Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare the differences between two groups. The correlation analysis among abnormal brain regions, serum hormone levels and WISC-IV scores were performed by Spearman or partial correlation analysis.\nCompared to the non-CPP group, the CPP group showed higher regional homogeneity (ReHo) values in the left inferior temporal gyrus (ITG.L), as well as lower ReHo values in left superior temporal gyrus (STG.L), left superior occipital gyrus (SOG.L) and the right middle gyrus (MTG.R) in slow4.in slow5 frequency band, CPP group demonstrated decreased ReHo values in bilateral orbital part of superior frontal gyrus and medial superior frontal gyrus.\nDue to the cross-section design of this study, further research is needed to explore the relationships between age, premature activation HPG axis and brain function changes.\nOur findings demonstrate that premature HPG axis activation and alterations in puberty hormones, may lead to changes in brain activity and cognitive function. This rs-fMRI study may enhance our understanding of the neuroendocrine mechanisms of mood, behavior, and cognitive function alterations in patients with CPP.", 
    "abstract": "Huntington's disease is an autosomal, dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by an expansion of the CAG repeats in exon 1 of the huntingtin gene. Neuronal degeneration and dysfunction that precedes regional atrophy result in the impairment of striatal and cortical circuits that affect the brain's large-scale network functionality. However, the evolution of these disease-driven, large-scale connectivity alterations is still poorly understood. Here we used resting-state fMRI to investigate functional connectivity changes in a mouse model of Huntington's disease in several relevant brain networks and how they are affected at different ages that follow a disease-like phenotypic progression. Towards this, we used the heterozygous (HET) form of the zQ175DN Huntington's disease mouse model that recapitulates aspects of human disease pathology. Seed- and Region-based analyses were performed at different ages, on 3-, 6-, 10-, and 12-month-old HET and age-matched wild-type mice. Our results demonstrate decreased connectivity starting at 6\u00a0months of age, most prominently in regions such as the retrosplenial and cingulate cortices, pertaining to the default mode-like network and auditory and visual cortices, part of the associative cortical network. At 12\u00a0months, we observe a shift towards decreased connectivity in regions such as the somatosensory cortices, pertaining to the lateral cortical network, and the caudate putamen, a constituent of the subcortical network. Moreover, we assessed the impact of distinct Huntington's Disease-like pathology of the zQ175DN HET mice on age-dependent connectivity between different brain regions and networks where we demonstrate that connectivity strength follows a non-linear, inverted U-shape pattern, a well-known phenomenon of development and normal aging. Conversely, the neuropathologically driven alteration of connectivity, especially in the default mode and associative cortical networks, showed diminished age-dependent evolution of functional connectivity. These findings reveal that in this Huntington's disease model, altered connectivity starts with cortical network aberrations which precede striatal connectivity changes, that appear only at a later age. Taken together, these results suggest that the age-dependent cortical network dysfunction seen in rodents could represent a relevant pathological process in Huntington's disease progression.", 
    "abstract": "After a first episode of major depressive disorder (MDD), there is substantial risk for a long-term remitting-relapsing course. Prevention and early interventions are thus critically important. Various studies have examined the feasibility of detecting at-risk individuals based on out-of-sample predictions about the future occurrence of depression. However, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has received very little attention for this purpose so far. Here, we explored the utility of generative models (i.e. different dynamic causal models, DCMs) as well as functional connectivity (FC) for predicting future episodes of depression in never-depressed adults, using a large dataset (N = 906) of task-free (\"resting state\") fMRI data from the UK Biobank (UKB). Connectivity analyses were conducted using timeseries from pre-computed spatially independent components of different dimensionalities. Over a three-year period, 50% of selected participants showed indications of at least one depressive episode, while the other 50% did not. Using nested cross-validation for training and a held-out test set (80/20 split), we systematically examined the combination of 8 connectivity feature sets and 17 classifiers. We found that a generative embedding procedure based on combining regression DCM (rDCM) with a support vector machine (SVM) enabled the best predictions, both on the training set (0.63 accuracy, 0.66 area under the curve, AUC) and the test set (0.62 accuracy, 0.64 AUC; p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). However, on the test set, rDCM was only slightly superior to predictions based on FC (0.59 accuracy, 0.61 AUC). Interpreting model predictions based on SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) values suggested that the most predictive connections were widely distributed and not confined to specific networks. Overall, our analyses suggest (i) ways of improving future fMRI-based generative embedding approaches for the early detection of individuals at-risk for depression and that (ii) achieving accuracies of clinical utility may require combination of fMRI with other data modalities.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Model-based data analysis of whole-brain dynamics links the observed data to model parameters in a network of neural masses. Recently, studies focused on the role of regional variance of model parameters. Such analyses however necessarily depend on the properties of preselected neural mass model. We introduce a method to infer from the functional data both the neural mass model representing the regional dynamics and the region- and subject-specific parameters while respecting the known network structure. We apply the method to human resting-state fMRI. We find that the underlying dynamics can be described as noisy fluctuations around a single fixed point. The method reliably discovers three regional parameters with clear and distinct role in the dynamics, one of which is strongly correlated with the first principal component of the gene expression spatial map. The present approach opens a novel way to the analysis of resting-state fMRI with possible applications for understanding the brain dynamics during aging or neurodegeneration.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) is widely utilized to study the directed influences among neural populations which were called effective connectivity (EC), and the spectral dynamic causal modelling (spDCM) is the state-of-the-art framework to identify them. However, spDCM used variational Laplace to approximate the posterior density by maximizing the free energy, which might underestimate the variability of posterior density and get locked to the local minima. A spectral sampling algorithm (SS-DCM) was proposed to improve the estimation accuracy of the dynamic causal model for rs-fMRI. In SS-DCM, a na\u00efve Bayesian model was constructed in the spectral domain, which described the probabilistic relationship between the sampled parameters and cross spectra of the observed blood oxygen level-dependent signals, and the parameters were sampled using randomly walked Markov Chain Monto Carlo scheme. The root mean square errors of the estimation of EC and hemodynamic parameters of SS-DCM, spDCM and generalized filter scheme were compared in the synthetic data, and SS-DCM was the most accurate and stable. A comparative evaluation using empirical rs-fMRI data was performed to study the EC pattern of the default mode network and compare the accuracy of classification between typically developed subjects and inattentive attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder patients. The results showed high consistency of positivity and negativity of EC between spDCM and SS-DCM, and SS-DCM also provided higher classification accuracy. It is highlighted that SS-DCM improves the accuracy of the estimation of EC and provides accurate information of discrepancies between diseased and healthy subjects using rs-fMRI.", 
    "abstract": "Superagers are defined as older adults with episodic memory performance similar or superior to that in middle-aged adults. This study aimed to investigate the key differences in discriminative networks and their main nodes between superagers and cognitively average elderly controls. In addition, we sought to explore differences in sensitivity in detecting these functional activities across the networks at 3T and 7T MR imaging fields.\nFifty-five subjects 80 years of age or older were screened using a detailed neuropsychological protocol, and 31 participants, comprising 14 superagers and 17 cognitively average elderly controls, were included for analysis. Participants underwent resting-state-fMRI at 3T and 7T MR imaging. A prediction classification algorithm using a penalized regression model on the measurements of the network was used to calculate the probabilities of a healthy older adult being a superager. Additionally, ORs quantified the influence of each node across preselected networks.\nThe key networks that differentiated superagers and elderly controls were the default mode, salience, and language networks. The most discriminative nodes (ORs > 1) in superagers encompassed areas in the precuneus posterior cingulate cortex, prefrontal cortex, temporoparietal junction, temporal pole, extrastriate superior cortex, and insula. The prediction classification model for being a superager showed better performance using the 7T compared with 3T resting-state-fMRI data set.\nOur findings suggest that the functional connectivity in the default mode, salience, and language networks can provide potential imaging biomarkers for predicting superagers. The 7T field holds promise for the most appropriate study setting to accurately detect the functional connectivity patterns in superagers.", 
    "abstract": "Schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BD) exhibited altered activation in several brain areas, including the prefrontal and temporal cortex; however, a less explored topic is how brain connectivity and functional disturbances occur in non-Caucasian samples of SCZ and BD. Individuals with SCZ (n=20), BD (n=21), and healthy controls (HC, n=21) from indigenous and African ethnicity were submitted to clinical screening and functional assessments. Mood, compulsive and psychotic symptoms were also correlated to network dysfunction in each group. Two distinct networks' subcomponents demonstrated significant lower global efficiency (GE) in SCZ versus HC, corresponding to left posterior dorsal attention and medial left ventral attention (VA) networks. Lower GE was found in BD versus controls in four subcomponents, including the left medial and right VA. Higher compulsion scores correlated in BD with lower GE in the left VA, whereas increased report of alcohol abuse was associated with higher GE in left default mode network. Although preliminary, differences in the activation of specific networks, notably the left hemisphere, in SCZ versus controls, and lower activation in VA areas, in BD versus controls. Results highlight default mode and salient network as relevant for the emotional processing of SCZ and BD of indigenous and black ethnicity. Abstract: schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, functional neuroimaging, ethnicity, default network.", 
    "abstract": "Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been used to study functional connectivity of brain networks in addictions. However, most studies to-date have focused on the default mode network (DMN) with fewer studies assessing the executive control network (ECN) and salience network (SN), despite well-documented cognitive executive behavioral deficits in addictions. The present study assessed the functional and effective connectivity of the ECN, DMN, and SN in cocaine dependent subjects (CD) (", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is associated with suicidal attempts (SAs) among adolescents, with suicide being the most common cause of mortality in this age group. This study explored the predictive utility of support vector machine (SVM)-based analyses of amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) results as a neuroimaging biomarker for aiding the diagnosis of MDD with SA in adolescents.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) analyses of 71 first-episode, drug-naive adolescent MDD patients with SA and 54 healthy control individuals were conducted. ALFF and SVM methods were used to analyze the imaging data.\nRelative to healthy control individuals, adolescent MDD patients with a history of SAs showed reduced ALFF values in the bilateral medial superior frontal gyrus (mSFG) and bilateral precuneus. These lower ALFF values were also negatively correlated with child depression inventory (CDI) scores while reduced bilateral precuneus ALFF values were negatively correlated with Suicidal Ideation Questionnaire Junior (SIQ-JR) scores. SVM analyses showed that reduced ALFF values in the bilateral mSFG and bilateral precuneus had diagnostic accuracy levels of 76.8% (96/125) and 82.4% (103/125), respectively.\nAdolescent MDD patients with a history of SA exhibited abnormal ALFF. The identified abnormalities in specific brain regions may be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition and may help identify at-risk adolescents. Specifically, reductions in the ALFF in the bilateral mSFG and bilateral precuneus may be indicative of MDD and SA in adolescent patients.", 
    "abstract": "Internet gaming disorder (IGD) can seriously impair an individual's physical and mental health. However, unlike the majority of those suffering from substance addiction, individuals with IGD may recover without any professional intervention. Understanding the brain mechanisms of natural recovery from IGD may provide new insight into how to prevent addiction and implement more targeted interventions.\nSixty individuals with IGD were scanned by using a resting-state fMRI to assess brain region changes associated with IGD. After 1 year, 19 individuals with IGD no longer met the IGD criteria and were considered recovered (RE-IGD), 23 individuals still met the IGD criteria (PER-IGD), and 18 individuals left the study. The brain activity in resting state between 19 RE-IGD individuals and 23 PER-IGD individuals was compared by using regional homogeneity (ReHo). Additionally, brain structure and cue-craving functional MRIs were collected to further support the results in the resting-state.\nThe resting-state fMRI results revealed that activity in brain regions responsible for reward and inhibitory control [including the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), the precuneus and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)] was decreased in the PER-IGD individuals compared to RE-IGD individuals. In addition, significant positive correlations were found between mean ReHo values in the precuneus and self-reported craving scores for gaming, whether among the PER-IGD individuals or the RE-IGD individuals. Furthermore, we found similar results in that brain structure and cue-craving differences exist between the PER-IGD individuals and RE-IGD individuals, specifically in the brain regions associated with reward processing and inhibitory control (including the DLPFC, anterior cingulate gyrus, insula, OFC, precuneus, and superior frontal gyrus).\nThese findings indicate that the brain regions responsible for reward processing and inhibitory control are different in PER-IGD individuals, which may have consequences on natural recovery. Our present study provides neuroimaging evidence that spontaneous brain activity may influence natural recovery from IGD.", 
    "abstract": "To explore the alterations of whole brain functional network using the degree centrality (DC) analysis in neovascular glaucoma (NVG) and the correlation between DC values and NVG clinical indices.\nTwenty NVG patients and twenty normal controls (NC), closely matched in age, sex, and education, were recruited for this study. All subjects underwent comprehensive ophthalmologic examinations and a resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scan. The differences in DC values of brain network between NVG and NC groups were analyzed, and correlation analysis was performed to explore the relationships between DC values and clinical ophthalmological indices in NVG group.\nCompared with NC group, significantly decreased DC values were found in the left superior occipital gyrus and left postcentral gyrus, while significantly increased DC values in the right anterior cingulate gyrus and left medial frontal gyrus in NVG group. (All P < 0.05, FDR corrected). In the NVG group, the DC value in left superior occipital gyrus showed significantly positive correlations with retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness (R = 0.484, P = 0.031) and mean deviation of visual field (MDVF) (R = 0.678, P = 0.001). Meanwhile, the DC value in the left medial frontal gyrus demonstrated significantly negative correlations with RNFL (R = - 0.544, P = 0.013) and MDVF (R = - 0.481, P = 0.032).\nNVG exhibited decreased network degree centrality in visual and sensorimotor brain regions and increased degree centrality in cognitive-emotional processing brain region. Additionally, the DC alterations might be complementary imaging biomarkers to assess disease severity.", 
    "abstract": "In recent decades, the primary intention of neuroscientists and psychiatrics is to evaluate the connectivity between brain regions and psychiatric disorders. The amygdala has central immersion in memory alliance, stress response, emotional perception, and automatic responses to emotional stimuli. This paper uses a meta-analysis approach to establish the relationship between structural resting state and functional amygdala connectivity with depression and suicide ideation with suicide behavior. In addition, this study explores the moderating effect of patients' demographic characteristics (gender and age) based on 30 studies. The results show that structural amygdala connectivity is positively related to the instability of depression, while for resting and task functional connectivity amygdala shows a significant negative connection with depression. Furthermore, the amygdala showed a partial activation for non-suicide self-injuries and suicide ideation. From structural and functional magnetic imaging, the current findings also support the moderating effect of the age of the participants on the amygdala connectivity with psychiatric conditions. Generally, amygdala connectivity with psychiatric disorders was not significantly moderate with the role of gender, however, this study enhances the existing hypothetical review articles and confirms the connectivity of the psychological condition with the amygdala region. It concludes that the amygdala plays a vital role in regulating and responding to emotions.", 
    "abstract": "Brain areas frequently implicated in language recovery after stroke comprise perilesional sites in the left hemisphere and homotopic regions in the right hemisphere. However, the neuronal mechanisms underlying language restoration are still largely unclear.\nIn the present study, we investigated the brain function in 15 patients with poststroke aphasia and 30 matched control subjects by combining the regional homogeneity (ReHo) and amplitudes of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) analysis methods based on resting-state fMRI.\nCompared to the control subjects, the patients with aphasia exhibited increased ReHo and ALFF values in the ipsilateral perilesional areas and increased ReHo in the contralesional right middle frontal gyrus.\nThe increased spontaneous brain activity in patients with poststroke aphasia during the recovery period, specifically in the ipsilateral perilesional regions and the homologous language regions of the right hemisphere, has potential implications for the treatment of patients with aphasia.", 
    "abstract": "Advances in applied machine learning techniques for neuroimaging have encouraged scientists to implement models to diagnose brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease at early stages. Predicting the exact stage of Alzheimer's disease is challenging; however, complex deep learning techniques can precisely manage this. While successful, these complex architectures are difficult to interrogate and computationally expensive. Therefore, using novel, simpler architectures with more efficient pattern extraction capabilities, such as transformers, is of interest to neuroscientists. This study introduced an optimized vision transformer architecture to predict the group membership by separating healthy adults, mild cognitive impairment, and Alzheimer's brains within the same age group (>75 years) using resting-state functional (rs-fMRI) and structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) data aggressively preprocessed by our pipeline. Our optimized architecture, known as OViTAD is currently the sole vision transformer-based end-to-end pipeline and outperformed the existing transformer models and most state-of-the-art solutions. Our model achieved F1-scores of 97%\u00b10.0 and 99.55%\u00b10.39 from the testing sets for the rs-fMRI and sMRI modalities in the triple-class prediction experiments. Furthermore, our model reached these performances using 30% fewer parameters than a vanilla transformer. Furthermore, the model was robust and repeatable, producing similar estimates across three runs with random data splits (we reported the averaged evaluation metrics). Finally, to challenge the model, we observed how it handled increasing noise levels by inserting varying numbers of healthy brains into the two dementia groups. Our findings suggest that optimized vision transformers are a promising and exciting new approach for neuroimaging applications, especially for Alzheimer's disease prediction.", 
    "abstract": "Schizophrenia has been associated with abnormal intrinsic brain activity, involving various cognitive impairments. Qualitatively similar abnormalities are seen in individuals at ultra-high risk (UHR) for psychosis. In this study, resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) data were collected from 44 drug-na\u00efve first-episode schizophrenia (Dn-FES) patients, 48 UHR individuals, and 40 healthy controls (HCs). The fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and functional connectivity (FC), were performed to evaluate resting brain function. A support vector machine (SVM) was applied for classification analysis. Compared to HCs, both clinical groups showed increased fALFF in the central executive network (CEN), decreased ReHo in the ventral visual pathway (VVP) and decreased FC in temporal-sensorimotor regions. Excellent performance was achieved by using fALFF value in distinguishing both FES (sensitivity=83.21%, specificity=80.58%, accuracy=81.37%, p=0.009) and UHR (sensitivity=75.88%, specificity=85.72%, accuracy=80.72%, p<0.001) from HC group. Moreover, the study highlighted the importance of frontal and temporal alteration in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. However, no fMRI features were observed that could well distinguish Dn-FES from UHR group. To conclude, fALFF in the CEN may provide potential power for identifying individuals at the early stage of schizophrenia and the alteration in the frontal and temporal lobe may be important to these individuals.", 
    "abstract": "To further explore the phenomenon of impaired self-awareness of motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson's Disease by using an evaluated measurement approach applied in previous studies, while also examining its connection with dispositional mindfulness and possible correlates of functional connectivity.\nRecently, the phenomenon of impaired self-awareness has been studied more intensively by applying different measurement and imaging methods. Existing literature also points towards a possible connection with mindfulness, which has not been examined in a cross-sectional study. There is no data available concerning correlates of functional connectivity.\nNon-demented patients with idiopathic Parkinson's Disease without severe depression were tested for impaired self-awareness for motor symptoms following a psychometrically evaluated approach. Mindfulness was measured by applying the German version of the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire. A subset of eligible patients underwent functional MRI scanning. Spearman correlation analyses were performed to examine clinical data. Whole-brain voxelwise regressions between seed-based connectivity and behavioral measures were calculated to identify functional connectivity correlates of impaired self-awareness scores.\nA total of 41 patients with Parkinson's Disease were included. 15 patients successfully underwent resting-state fMRI scanning. Up to 88% of patients showed signs of impaired self-awareness. Awareness for hypokinetic movements correlated with total mindfulness values and three facets, while awareness for dyskinetic movements did not. Three significant clusters between scores of impaired self-awareness in general and for dyskinetic movements were identified linking behavioral measures with the functional connectivity of the inferior frontal gyrus, the right insular cortex, the supplementary motor area, and the precentral gyrus among others. Impaired self-awareness for hypokinetic movements did not have any neural correlate.\nClinical data is comparable with results from previous studies applying the same structured approach to measure impaired self-awareness in Parkinson's Disease. Functional connectivity analyses were conducted for the first time to evaluate neural correlates thereof. This data does not support a connection between impaired self-awareness of motor symptoms and dispositional mindfulness.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state fMRI helps identify neural networks in presurgical patients who may be limited in their ability to undergo task-fMRI. The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy of identifying the language network from resting-state-fMRI independent component analysis (ICA) maps.\nThrough retrospective analysis, patients who underwent both resting-state-fMRI and task-fMRI were compared by identifying the language network from the resting-state-fMRI data by 3 reviewers. Blinded to task-fMRI maps, these investigators independently reviewed resting-state-fMRI ICA maps to potentially identify the language network. Reviewers ranked up to 3 top choices for the candidate resting-state-fMRI language map. We evaluated associations between the probability of correct identification of the language network and some potential factors.\nPatients included 29 men and 14 women with a mean age of 41\u2009years. Reviewer 1 (with 17\u2009years' experience) demonstrated the highest overall accuracy with 72%; reviewers 2 and 3 (with 2 and 7\u2009years' experience, respectively) had a similar percentage of correct responses (50% and 55%). The highest accuracy used ICA50 and the top 3 choices (81%, 65%, and 60% for reviewers 1, 2, and 3, respectively). The lowest accuracy used ICA50, limiting each reviewer to the top choice (58%, 35%, and 42%).\nWe demonstrate variability in the accuracy of blinded identification of resting-state-fMRI language networks across reviewers with different years of experience.", 
    "abstract": "Acute pericoronitis (AP) is a common cause of odontogenic toothache. Pain significantly affects the structure and function of the brain, but alterations in spontaneous brain activity in patients with AP are unclear.\nTo apply the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) method in resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate altered spontaneous brain activity characteristics in patients with AP in different frequency bands (typical, slow-4, and slow-5 bands) and assess their correlation with clinical scores.\nThirty-four right-handed patients with AP and 31 healthy controls (HC), matched for age, sex, education, and right-handedness, were enrolled. All subjects underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. DPABI software was used for data preprocessing and extracting the ALFF values in different frequency bands. Subsequently, differences in ALFF values in the three bands were compared between the two groups. Correlation between ALFF values in the differential brain regions and clinical scores was assessed.\nIn the typical band, ALFF values were higher in the left insula, left superior occipital gyrus, left inferior parietal lobule, left posterior cerebellar lobule, and right postcentral gyrus in the AP than in the HC group. In the slow-4 band, ALFF values in the left superior occipital gyrus, right superior occipital gyrus, and right middle occipital gyrus were higher, and those in the right cingulate gyrus and right superior temporal gyrus were lower in the AP than in the HC group. In the slow-5 band, the ALFF values in the left insula and left superior occipital gyrus were higher in the AP than in the HC group. The ALFF values of the typical bands in the left insula, left inferior parietal lobule, and right postcentral gyrus correlated negatively, those of the slow-4 band in the right middle occipital gyrus correlated positively, and those of the slow-5 band in the left insula correlated negatively with the visual analogue scale score in the AP group.\nOur results suggested that the intrinsic brain activity of AP patients was abnormal and frequency-dependent. This provides new insights to explore the neurophysiological mechanisms of AP.", 
    "abstract": "The analysis of brain function in resting-state network (RSN) models, ascertained through the functional connectivity pattern of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), is sufficiently powerful for studying large-scale functional integration of the brain. However, in RSN-based research, the network architecture has been regarded as the same through different frequency bands. Thus, here, we aimed to examined whether the network architecture changes with frequency. The blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal was decomposed into four frequency bands-ranging from 0.007 to 0.438\u00a0Hz-and the clustering algorithm was applied to each of them. The best clustering number was selected for each frequency band based on the overlap ratio with task activation maps. The results demonstrated that resting-state BOLD signals exhibited frequency-specific network architecture; that is, the networks finely subdivided in the lower frequency bands were integrated into fewer networks in higher frequency bands rather than reconfigured, and the default mode network and networks related to perception had sufficiently strong architecture to survive in an environment with a lower signal-to-noise ratio. These findings provide a novel framework to enable improved understanding of brain function through the multiband frequency analysis of ultra-slow rs-fMRI data.", 
    "abstract": "We aimed to determine whether alterations in spontaneous regional brain activity in those with generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS) and focal to bilateral tonic-clonic seizures (FBTCS) and explore whether the alterations could be used as biomarkers to classify disease subtypes through support vector machine analysis (SVM).\nThe fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data were extracted from 57 patients with GTCS, 35 patients with FBTCS, and 50 age-matched and sex-matched normal controls (NCs) using the DPARSF 5.0 toolbox. Between-group comparisons were adjusted for covariates (age, sex, and equipment). Correlation analyses between imaging biomarkers and the frequency or duration of seizure activity were calculated using partial correlations. The differential imaging indicators, age, and sex were considered as the discriminative features in the SVM to evaluate classification performance.\nThe patients with GTCS showed lower fALFF values (voxel p < 0.001, cluster p\u00a0<\u00a00.05, Gaussian random field corrected, GRF corrected) in the right postcentral gyrus and precentral gyrus and lower ReHo values (GRF corrected) in the middle temporal gyrus than the NCs. The patients with FBTCS showed higher fALFF (GRF corrected) values in the right postcentral and precentral gyrus and higher ReHo (GRF corrected) values in the right postcentral gyrus. Both fALFF (GRF corrected) and ReHo (GRF corrected) values were lower in the right postcentral gyrus and precentral gyrus in the GTCS group than in the FBTCS group. In patients with FBTCS, fALFF values in the right postcentral and precentral gyrus were positively correlated with duration (r\u00a0=\u00a00.655, p\u00a0=\u00a00.008, Bonferroni corrected) in the low-duration group, and ReHo values in the right postcentral gyrus were positively correlated with frequency (r\u00a0=\u00a00.486, p\u00a0=\u00a00.022, uncorrected) in the low-frequency group. SVM results showed receiver operating characteristic curves of 0.89, 0.87, and 0.76 for the classification between GTCS and NC, between FBTCS and NC, and GTCS and FBTCS, respectively.\nThis study detected alterations in fALFF and ReHo in the postcentral gyrus and precentral gyrus in patients with GTCS and FBTCS, which might contribute to understanding the pathogenesis, disease classification, and clinical targeted therapy.", 
    "abstract": "In glioma patients, tumor development and multimodality therapy are associated with changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL). It is largely unknown how different types and locations of tumor- and treatment-related brain lesions, as well as their relationship to white matter tracts and functional brain networks, affect HRQoL.\nIn 121 patients with pretreated gliomas of WHO CNS grades 3 or 4, structural MRI, O-(2-[\nRight hemisphere gliomas were associated with significantly less favorable outcomes in physical, role, emotional and social functioning, compared with left-sided tumors. Most functional HRQoL scores correlated significantly with right-sided white-matter tracts involvement by T2/FLAIR hyperintensities and with loss of within-network functional connectivity of right-sided nodes. Tumors of the left hemisphere caused significantly more communication deficits.\nIn pretreated high-grade gliomas, right hemisphere lesions are associated with reduced HRQoL scores in most functional domains except communication ability, compared to tumors of the left hemisphere. These relationships are mainly observed for T2/FLAIR lesions involving structural and functional networks in the right hemisphere. The data suggest that sparing the right hemisphere from treatment-related tissue damage may improve HRQoL in glioma patients.", 
    "abstract": "Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has proven to be a powerful tool for noninvasively measuring human brain activity; yet, thus far, fMRI has been relatively limited in its temporal resolution. A key challenge is understanding the relationship between neural activity and the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signal obtained from fMRI, generally modeled by the hemodynamic response function (HRF). The timing of the HRF varies across the brain and individuals, confounding our ability to make inferences about the timing of the underlying neural processes. Here we show that resting-state fMRI signals contain information about HRF temporal dynamics that can be leveraged to understand and characterize variations in HRF timing across both cortical and subcortical regions. We found that the frequency spectrum of resting-state fMRI signals significantly differs between voxels with fast versus slow HRFs in human visual cortex. These spectral differences extended to subcortex as well, revealing significantly faster hemodynamic timing in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus. Ultimately, our results demonstrate that the temporal properties of the HRF impact the spectral content of resting-state fMRI signals and enable voxel-wise characterization of relative hemodynamic response timing. Furthermore, our results show that caution should be used in studies of resting-state fMRI spectral properties, as differences can arise from purely vascular origins. This finding provides new insight into the temporal properties of fMRI signals across voxels, which is crucial for accurate fMRI analyses, and enhances the ability of fast fMRI to identify and track fast neural dynamics.", 
    "abstract": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders in school-aged children. Its accurate diagnosis looks after patients' interests well with effective treatment, which is important to them and their family. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) has been widely used to characterize the abnormal brain function by computing the voxel-wise measures and Pearson's correlation (PC)-based functional connectivity (FC) for ADHD diagnosis. However, exploring the powerful measures of rsfMRI to improve ADHD diagnosis remains a particular challenge. To this end, this paper proposes an automated ADHD classification framework by fusion of multiple measures of rsfMRI in adolescent brain. First, we extract the voxel-wise measures and ROI-wise time series from the brain regions of rsfMRI after preprocessing. Then, to extract the multiple functional connectivities, we compute the PC-derived FCs including the topographical information-based high-order FC (tHOFC) and dynamics-based high-order FC (dHOFC), the sparse representation (SR)-derived FCs including the group SR (GSR), the strength and similarity guided GSR (SSGSR), and sparse low-rank (SLR). Finally, these measures are combined with multiple kernel learning (MKL) model for ADHD classification. The proposed method is applied to the Adolescent Brain and Cognitive Development (ABCD) dataset. The results show that the FCs of dHOFC and SLR perform better than the others. Fusing multiple measures achieves the best classification performance (AUC\u2009=\u20090.740, accuracy = 0.6916), superior to those from the single measure and the previous studies. We have identified the most discriminative FCs and brain regions for ADHD diagnosis, which are consistent with those of published literature.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies indicated the sedative effect of acupoint stimulation. However, its mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the sedative effect of transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS) and to explore the brain regions involved in this effect in healthy volunteers using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques.\nIn this randomized trial, 26 healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to the TEAS group (receiving 30 min of acupoint stimulation at HT7/PC4) and the control group. fMRI was conducted before and after the intervention. The primary outcome was the BIS value during the intervention. Secondary outcomes included the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and region of interest (ROI)-based functional connectivity (FC) showed by fMRI.\nIn healthy volunteers, compared with the control group, ALFF values in the TEAS-treated volunteers decreased in the left thalamus, right putamen, and midbrain, while they increased in the left orbitofrontal cortex. More FC existed between the thalamus and the insula, middle cingulate cortex, somatosensory cortex, amygdala, and putamen in subjects after TEAS treatment compared with subjects that received non-stimulation. In addition, ALFF values of the thalamus positively correlated with BIS in both groups.\nTranscutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation could induce a sedative effect in healthy volunteers, and inhibition of the thalamus was among its possible mechanisms.\nwww.ClinicalTrials.gov; identifier: NCT01896063.", 
    "abstract": "Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been proven to be associated with an increased risk of cognitive impairment and dementia, and this association is more significant in non-obese NAFLD populations, but its pathogenesis remains unclear. Our study aimed to explore the abnormalities of spontaneous brain activity in non-obese NAFLD patients by resting-state fMRI (RS-fMRI) and their relationship with cognitive function.\n19 non-obese NAFLD, 25 obese NAFLD patients, and 20 healthy controls (HC) were enrolled. All subjects underwent RS-fMRI scan, psychological scale assessment, and biochemical examination. After RS-fMRI data were preprocessed, differences in low-frequency fluctuation amplitude (ALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo) and functional connectivity (FC) were compared among the three groups. Furthermore, the relationship between RS-fMRI indicators and cognitive and clinical indicators were performed using correlation analysis.\nThe cognitive function was declined in both NAFLD groups. Compared with obese NAFLD patients, non-obese NAFLD patients showed increased ALFF and ReHo in the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG), increased ReHo in the sensorimotor cortex and reduced FC between left MTG and right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). Compared with HC, non-obese NAFLD patients showed increased ALFF and ReHo in the left calcarine cortex and fusiform gyrus (FG), decreased ALFF in the bilateral cerebellum, and reduced FC between left FG and right IFG and left angular gyrus. In addition to the same results, obese patients showed increased activity in different regions of the bilateral cerebellum, while decreased ALFF in the right superior frontal gyrus and ReHo in the right orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Correlation analysis showed that in non-obese patients, the ALFF values in the FG and the FC values between the left MTG and the right IFG were associated with cognitive decline, insulin resistance, and fasting glucose disorder.\nNon-obese NAFLD patients showed abnormal local spontaneous activity and FC in regions involved in the sensorimotor, temporo-occipital cortex, cerebellum, and reward system (such as OFC), some of which may be the potential neural mechanism difference from obese NAFLD patients. In addition, the temporo-occipital cortex may be a vulnerable target for cognitive decline in non-obese NAFLD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) is a specific paradigm of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) with an inhibitory effect on cortical excitability for up to 60\u2009min after less than 1\u2009min of stimulation. The right posterior superior temporal gyrus (pSTG), homotopic to Wernicke's area in the left hemisphere, may be a potential stimulation target based on its critical role in semantic processing. The objective of this study was to explore whether cTBS over the right pSTG can promote language improvements in aphasic patients and the underlying mechanism.\nA total of 34 subjects with aphasia were randomly assigned to undergo 15 sessions of either 40-s inhibitory cTBS over the right pSTG (the cTBS group) or sham stimulation (the sham group), followed by 30\u2009min of speech and language therapy. Subjects underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), and the aphasia quotient (AQ) of the Chinese version of the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) was calculated before and after the intervention. This randomized controlled trial was registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (No. ChiCTR210052962).\nAfter treatment, the language performance of the cTBS group was higher than that of the sham group in terms of the WAB-AQ score (\nOur findings indicate that cTBS of the right pSTG may improve language production by suppressing intrinsic activity of the right fronto-thalamic-cerebellar circuit and enhancing the involvement of the right temporoparietal region.", 
    "abstract": "The lack of a robust diagnostic biomarker makes understanding depression from a neurobiological standpoint an important goal, especially in the context of brain imaging.\nIn this study, we aim to create novel image-based features for objective diagnosis of depression. Resting-state network time series are used to investigate neurodynamics with the help of wavelet coherence and Granger causality (G-causality). Three new features are introduced: total wavelet coherence, wavelet lead coherence, and wavelet coherence blob analysis. The fourth feature, pair-wise conditional G-causality, is used to establish the causality between resting-state networks. We use the proposed features to classify depression in adult subjects.\nWe obtained an accuracy of 86% in the wavelet lead coherence, 80% in Granger causality, and 86% in wavelet coherence blob analysis. Subjects with depression showed hyperconnectivity between the dorsal attention network and the auditory network as well as between the posterior default mode network and the dorsal attention network. Hypoconnectivity was found between the anterior default mode network and the auditory network as well as the right frontoparietal network and the lateral visual network. An abnormal co-activation pattern was found between cerebellum and the lateral motor network according to the wavelet coherence blob analysis.\nBased on abnormal functional dynamics between brain networks, we were able to identify subjects with depression with high accuracy. The findings of this study contribute to the understanding of the impaired emotional and attention processing associated with depression, as well as decreased motor activity.", 
    "abstract": "In many functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, respiratory signals are unavailable or do not have acceptable quality due to issues with subject compliance, equipment failure or signal error. In large databases, such as the Human Connectome Projects, over half of the respiratory recordings may be unusable. As a result, the direct removal of low frequency respiratory variations from the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal time series is not possible. This study proposes a deep learning-based method for reconstruction of respiratory variation (RV) waveforms directly from BOLD fMRI data in pediatric participants (aged 5 to 21 years old), and does not require any respiratory measurement device. To do this, the Lifespan Human Connectome Project in Development (HCP-D) dataset, which includes respiratory measurements, was used to both train a convolutional neural network (CNN) and evaluate its performance. Results show that a CNN can capture informative features from the BOLD signal time course and reconstruct accurate RV timeseries, especially when the subject has a prominent respiratory event. This work advances the use of direct estimation of physiological parameters from fMRI, which will eventually lead to reduced complexity and decrease the burden on participants because they may not be required to wear a respiratory bellows.", 
    "abstract": "To test whether preoperative pain sensitivity is associated with the postoperative axial pain (PAP) in degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) and to explore its underlying brain mechanism.\nClinical data and resting-state fMRI data of 62 DCM patients along with 60 age/gender matched healthy participants were collected and analysed. Voxel-wise amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF) was computed and compared between DCM patients and healthy controls. Correlation analyses were performed to reveal the association between the clinical metrics and brain alterations. Clinical data and ALFF were also compared between DCM patients with PAP and without PAP.\n(1) Relative to healthy participants, DCM patients exhibited significantly lower preoperative pain threshold which is associated with the PAP intensity; (2) Relative to patients without PAP, PAP patients exhibited increased ALFF in mid-cingulate cortex (MCC) and lower preoperative pain threshold; (3) Further, multivariate pattern analysis revealed that MCC ALFF provide additional value for PAP vs. non-PAP classification.\nIn conclusion, our findings suggest that preoperative pain hypersensitivity may be associated with postoperative axial pain in degenerative cervical myelopathy patients. This finding may inspire new therapeutic ideas for patients with preoperative axial pain.", 
    "abstract": "The abnormal functional connectivity (FC) pattern of default mode network (DMN) may be key markers for early identification of various cognitive disorders. However, the whole-brain FC changes of DMN in delayed neurocognitive recovery (DNR) are still unclear. Our study was aimed at exploring the whole-brain FC patterns of all regions in DMN and the potential features as biomarkers for the prediction of DNR using machine-learning algorithms.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was conducted before surgery on 74 patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery. Seed-based whole-brain FC with 18 core regions located in the DMN was performed, and FC features that were statistically different between the DNR and non-DNR patients after false discovery correction were extracted. Afterward, based on the extracted FC features, machine-learning algorithms such as support vector machine, logistic regression, decision tree, and random forest were established to recognize DNR. The machine learning experiment procedure mainly included three following steps: feature standardization, parameter adjustment, and performance comparison. Finally, independent testing was conducted to validate the established prediction model. The algorithm performance was evaluated by a permutation test.\nWe found significantly decreased DMN connectivity with the brain regions involved in visual processing in DNR patients than in non-DNR patients. The best result was obtained from the random forest algorithm based on the 20 decision trees (estimators). The random forest model achieved the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of 84.0, 63.1, and 89.5%, respectively. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the classifier reached 86.4%. The feature that contributed the most to the random forest model was the FC between the left retrosplenial cortex/posterior cingulate cortex and left precuneus.\nThe decreased FC of DMN with regions involved in visual processing might be effective markers for the prediction of DNR and could provide new insights into the neural mechanisms of DNR.\n: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, ChiCTR-DCD-15006096.", 
    "abstract": "Taste perception has been deeply explored from the behavioural level to delineating neural mechanisms. However, most previous studies about the neural underpinnings of taste perception have focused on task-related brain activation. Notably, evidence indicates that task-induced brain activation often involves interference from irrelevant task materials and only accounts for a small fraction of the brain's energy consumption. Investigation of the resting-state spontaneous brain activity would bring us a comprehensive understanding of the neural mechanism of taste perception. Here we acquired resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data from twenty-two participants immediately after they received sweet, sour and tasteless gustatory stimulation. Our results showed that, in contrast to the tasteless condition, the sour exposure induced decreased amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) in the somatosensory cortex in the left post-central gyrus, and the sweet exposure led to increased ALFF in the bilateral putamen involved in reward processing. Moreover, in contrast to the sweet stimulation condition, the sour stimulation condition showed increased ALFF in the right superior frontal gyrus, which has been linked to functioning in high-order cognitive control. Altogether, our data indicate that taste exposure may affect the spontaneous functional activity in brain regions, including the somatosensory areas, reward processing areas and high-order cognitive functioning areas. Our findings may contribute to a further understanding the neural network and mechanisms after taste exposure.", 
    "abstract": "Hyperkinetic movement disorders (HMD) manifest as abnormal and uncontrollable movements. Despite reported involvement of several neural circuits, exact connectivity profiles remain elusive.\nProviding a comprehensive literature review of resting-state brain connectivity alterations using resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI). We additionally discuss alterations from the perspective of brain networks, as well as correlations between connectivity and clinical measures.\nA systematic review was performed according to PRISMA guidelines and searching PubMed until October 2022. Rs-fMRI studies addressing ataxia, chorea, dystonia, myoclonus, tics, tremor, and functional movement disorders (FMD) were included. The standardized mean difference was used to summarize findings per region in the Automated Anatomical Labeling atlas for each phenotype. Furthermore, the activation likelihood estimation meta-analytic method was used to analyze convergence of significant between-group differences per phenotype. Finally, we conducted hierarchical cluster analysis to provide additional insights into commonalities and differences across HMD phenotypes.\nMost articles concerned tremor (51), followed by dystonia (46), tics (19), chorea (12), myoclonus (11), FMD (11), and ataxia (8). Altered resting-state connectivity was found in several brain regions: in ataxia mainly cerebellar areas; for chorea, the caudate nucleus; for dystonia, sensorimotor and basal ganglia regions; for myoclonus, the thalamus and cingulate cortex; in tics, the basal ganglia, cerebellum, insula, and frontal cortex; for tremor, the cerebello-thalamo-cortical circuit; finally, in FMD, frontal, parietal, and cerebellar regions. Both decreased and increased connectivity were found for all HMD. Significant spatial convergence was found for dystonia, FMD, myoclonus, and tremor. Correlations between clinical measures and resting-state connectivity were frequently described.\nKey brain regions contributing to functional connectivity changes across HMD often overlap. Possible increases and decreases of functional connections of a specific region emphasize that HMD should be viewed as a network disorder. Despite the complex interplay of physiological and methodological factors, this review serves to gain insight in brain connectivity profiles across HMD phenotypes.", 
    "abstract": "The past 10 years have seen an explosion of approaches that focus on the study of time-resolved change in functional connectivity (FC). FC characterization among networks at a whole-brain level is frequently termed functional network connectivity (FNC). Time-resolved or dynamic functional network connectivity (dFNC) focuses on the estimation of transient, recurring, whole-brain patterns of FNC. While most approaches in this area have attempted to capture dynamic linear correlation, we are particularly interested in whether explicitly nonlinear relationships, above and beyond linear, are present and contain unique information. This study thus proposes an approach to assess explicitly nonlinear dynamic functional network connectivity (EN dFNC) derived from the relationship among independent component analysis time courses. Linear relationships were removed at each time point to evaluate, typically ignored, explicitly nonlinear dFNC using normalized mutual information (NMI). Simulations showed the proposed method estimated explicitly nonlinearity over time, even within relatively short windows of data. We then, applied our approach on 151 schizophrenia patients, and 163 healthy controls fMRI data and found three unique, highly structured, mostly long-range, functional states that also showed significant group differences. In particular, explicitly nonlinear relationships tend to be more widespread than linear ones. Results also highlighted a state with long range connections to the visual domain, which were significantly reduced in schizophrenia. Overall, this work suggests that quantifying EN dFNC may provide a complementary and potentially valuable tool for studying brain function by exposing relevant variation that is typically ignored.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Patients with osteonecrosis of the femoral head\u00a0 commonly present with sensorimotor anomalies. With independent component analysis, it is possible to explore the intrinsic alternations in highly specific functional networks. We used independent component analysis to examine the intrinsic changes and interactive connectivity between related functional resting-state networks.\nThe purpose of this study was to strengthen the theoretical basis of brain plasticity after osteonecrosis of the femoral head to provide new insights into clinical treatment.\nObservational study.\nSchool of rehabilitation science of a university.\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging data were acquired from 14 patients with osteonecrosis of the femoral head and 20 healthy controls. All the data underwent preprocessing and analysis of the intrinsic brain functional connectivity within and between resting-state networks.\nNine resting-state networks were identified via independent component analysis. When compared to healthy controls, the osteonecrosis of the femoral head patients showed abnormal activity in these networks. With respect to the internetwork interactions, increased functional connectivity\u00a0 was detected between the sensorimotor network and right frontoparietal network and between the dorsal attention network and frontoparietal network bilaterally.\nThis study was a cross-sectional design. A longitudinal study of the dynamic changes in multinetwork functional connectivity can help to elucidate the central mechanisms of osteonecrosis of the femoral head.\nThis study investigated the alterations in resting-state network functional connectivity in osteonecrosis of the femoral head patients. Examining the large-scale functional reorganization in osteonecrosis of the femoral head patients may be helpful for us to understand the pathological mechanisms underlying dysfunction and shed light on potential behavioral treatments for osteonecrosis of the femoral head based on functional magnetic resonance imaging in clinical practice. Understanding the mechanisms of the disease may shed light on potential behavioral treatments for patients with osteonecrosis of the femoral head based on functional magnetic resonance imaging findings.", 
    "abstract": "The brain presents a real complex network of modular, small-world, and hierarchical nature, which are features of non-Euclidean geometry. Using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging, we constructed a scale-free binary graph for each subject, using internodal time series correlation of regions of interest as a proximity measure. The resulting network could be embedded onto manifolds of various curvatures and dimensions. While maintaining the fidelity of embedding (low distortion, high mean average precision), functional brain networks were found to be best represented in the hyperbolic disc. Using the \ud835\udd4a", 
    "abstract": "The aim of our present study was to explore the connectivity pattern change between the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the voxels from the whole brain in chronic insomnia (CI). With region of interest (ROI)-based functional connectivity, a two-sample t-test was performed on individual FC correlation maps from two groups based on the resting-state fMRI data acquired from 57 CI patients and 46 healthy controls (GRF correction, voxel-level P\u00a0<\u00a00.001 and cluster-level P\u00a0<\u00a00.001). A correlation analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between the clinical features and the abnormal FC. Compared to the healthy controls, the CI patients show increased connectivity between the ACC and the right middle frontal gyrus, with decreased connectivity between the ACC and the bilateral precuneus gyrus. Correlation analysis indicated that the decreased connectivity showed positive correlations with Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) scores. Our study shows the alterations of CI patients in the level of functional integration and may indicate the dysfunction of communication within brain regions of the default mode network (DMN). These changes and their correlation with negative emotions may provide additional evidence to understand the possible neural mechanisms of CI.", 
    "abstract": "In recent years, the quantity and complexity of medical imaging acquisition and processing have increased tremendously. The explosion in volume and need for advanced imaging analysis have led to the creation of numerous software programs, which have begun to be incorporated into clinical practice for indications such as automated stroke assessment, brain tumor perfusion processing, and hippocampal volume analysis. Despite these advances, there remains a need for specialized, custom-built software for advanced algorithms and new areas of research that is not widely available or adequately integrated in these \"out-of-the-box\" solutions. The purpose of this paper is to describe the implementation of an image-processing pipeline that is versatile and simple to create, which allows for rapid prototyping of image analysis algorithms and subsequent testing in a clinical environment. This pipeline uses a combination of Orthanc server, custom MATLAB code, and publicly available FMRIB Software Library and RestNeuMap tools to automatically receive and analyze resting-state functional MRI data collected from a custom filter on the MR scanner output. The processed files are then sent directly to Picture Archiving and Communications System (PACS) without the need for user input. This initial experience can serve as a framework for those interested in simple implementation of an automated pipeline customized to clinical needs.", 
    "abstract": "Limited studies had jointly excavated the structural and functional changes in cognitive deficit in anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis patients. We aimed to explore these changes in anti-NMDAR patients and their effect on cognitive function.\nTwenty-three patients and 25 healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging, diffusion tensor imaging scanning, and neuroethology tests. The significantly differentiated brain regions via the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) were defined as regions of interest (ROIs). Granger causal, functional connectivity, and tract-based spatial statistical analyses were applied to explore the functional changes in ROIs and assess the structural changes.\nHCs outperformed patients in Montreal Cognitive Assessment. The fALFF values of right gyrus rectus (RGR) in patients were significantly reduced. The fractional anisotropy (FA) values of WM in the genu of corpus callosum and right superior corona radiata were significantly decreased and positively associated with neuroethology testing scores. The Granger causal connectivity (GCC) from the left inferior parietal lobule to RGR was significantly decreased and positively associated with inherent vigilance. Indicated by the multiple linear regression result, decreased FA value of the right superior corona radiata might be a reliable marker that reflects the cognitive impairment.\nSignificant changes in spontaneous neural activities, GCC, and WM structures in anti-NMDAR encephalitis were reported. These findings promote the understanding of underlying relationships between cerebral function, structural network alterations, and cognitive dysfunction.", 
    "abstract": "Breast cancer (BC) is the highest frequent malignancy in women globally. Approximately 25-60% of BC patients with chronic neuropathic pain (CNP) result from advances in treating BC. Since the CNP mechanism is unclear, the various treatment methods for CNP are limited. We aimed to explore the brain alternations in BC patients with CNP and the relationship between depression and CNP utilizing resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI).\nTo collect the data, the female BC survivors with CNP (\nPatients with BC showed increased depression and FC between the thalamus and primary somatosensory cortices (SI). Moreover, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Depression (HADS-D) and pain duration were linked positively to the strength of FC from the thalamus to the SI. Furthermore, the thalamus-SI FC mediated the impact of pain duration on HADS-D.\nIn BC patients with CNP, the ascending pain regulation mechanism is impaired and strongly associated with chronic pain and accompanying depression. This research increased our knowledge of the pathophysiology of CNP in patients with BC, which will aid in determining the optimal therapeutic strategy for those patients.", 
    "abstract": "Being choked or strangled during partnered sex is an emerging sexual behavior, prevalent among young adult women. The goal of this study was to test whether, and to what extent, frequently being choked or strangled during sex is associated with cortical surface functioning and functional connectivity. This case-control study consisted of two groups (choking vs. choking-na\u00efve). Women who were choked 4 or more times during sex in the past 30 days were enrolled into the choking group, whereas those without were assigned to the choking-na\u00efve group. We collected structural and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data and analyzed the data for amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) using cortical surface-based resting-state fMRI analysis, followed by static and dynamic resting-state fMRI connectivity analysis. Forty-one participants (choking ", 
    "abstract": "This study's aim was to investigate functional brain connectivity changes among patients with moyamoya disease (MMD) with limb paresthesia, using functional connectivity analysis based on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). A total of 181 patients with MMD were enrolled, including 57 with left limb paresthesia (MLP group), 61 with right limb paresthesia (MRP group), and 63 without paresthesia (MWP group). Encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis (EDAS) was performed in 20 of the 57 patients with left limb paresthesia and 15 of the 61 patients with right limb paresthesia. Twenty-nine age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC group) were recruited during the same period. All participants underwent rs-fMRI examination, and the patients treated with EDAS were re-examined 3-4\u00a0months after the surgery. After data preprocessing, we selected Brodmann area 3 on each side of the brain as the seed region to construct a functional connectivity network of the whole brain, and then we analyzed the differences in functional connectivity between the HC group, MWP group, MLP group, and MRP group. The functional connectivity of Brodmann area 3 (on either side) with the ipsilateral frontal (superior frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, and inferior frontal gyrus) and parietal (supramarginal gyrus, angular gyrus, and superior parietal lobule) cortices was increased among patients with MMD. The functional connectivity enhancement in these brain regions was broader and greater in patients with contralateral limb paresthesia than in patients without paresthesia, and the regions with functional connectivity changes were roughly distributed symmetrically among the MLP group and the MRP group. There were no changes 3-4\u00a0months after EDAS in the increased functional connectivity between the frontal and parietal cortices and Brodmann area 3. Limb paresthesia in patients with MMD may be driven by abnormal functional connectivity in the frontal and parietal cortices. Functional changes in associated brain regions may be a target for evaluating the severity of MMD and its response to treatment.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to explore the abnormality of local brain function in patients with post-stroke insomnia (PSI) based on fMRI and explore the possible neuropathological mechanisms of insomnia in patients with PSI in combination with the Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI) score and provide an objective evaluation index for the follow-up study of acupuncture treatment of PSI.\nA total of 27 patients with insomnia after stroke were enrolled, and the PSQI was used to evaluate their sleep status. Twenty-seven healthy participants who underwent physical examinations during the same period were selected as controls. Resting-state brain function images and structural images of the two groups of participants were collected, and the abnormal changes in the regional brain function in patients with PSI were analyzed using three methods: regional homogeneity (ReHo), the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and fractional ALFF (fALFF), and a correlation analysis with the PSQI scale score.\nCompared with the HCs, the ReHo values of the PSI group in the bilateral lingual gyrus, right cuneus, right precentral and postcentral gyri were significantly lower, and the ReHo values of the left supramarginal gyrus were significantly higher. In the PSI group, the ALFF values in the bilateral lingual gyrus were significantly decreased, whereas those in the bilateral middle temporal gyrus, right inferior temporal gyrus, right inferior frontal gyrus, right limbic lobe, right precuneus, left posterior cingulate gyrus, and left middle occipital gyrus were significantly increased. Compared with HCs, the fALFF values of the bilateral lingual gyrus, bilateral inferior occipital gyrus, and bilateral cuneus in the PSI group were significantly higher. The ReHo value of the left supramarginal gyrus in the PSI group was significantly negatively correlated with the total PSQI score.\nPatients with PSI have abnormal local activities in multiple brain regions, including the visual processing-related cortex, sensorimotor cortex, and some default-mode network (DMN) regions. Over-arousal of the DMN and over-sensitivity of the audiovisual stimuli in patients with PSI may be the main mechanisms of insomnia and can lead to a decline in cognitive function and abnormalities in emotion regulation simultaneously.", 
    "abstract": "Previous Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have mainly focused on cerebral functional alteration in processing different emotional stimuli in patients with narcolepsy type 1 (NT1), but were short of exploration of characteristic brain activity and its remote interaction patterns. This study aimed to investigate the spontaneous blood oxygen fluctuations at rest and to elucidate the neural mechanisms underlying neuropsychiatric behavior.\nA total of 18 unmedicated patients with NT1 and matched healthy individuals were recruited in a resting-state fMRI study. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data were first analyzed using fractional low-frequency amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) to detect changes in local neural activity, and regions with group differences were taken as regions of interest (ROIs). Secondly, functional connectivity (FC) analysis was used to explore altered connectivity between ROIs and other areas. Lastly, the relationship between functional brain activity and neuropsychiatric behaviors was analyzed with correlation analysis.\nfALFF analysis revealed enhanced neural activity in bilateral fusiform gyrus (FFG), right precentral gyrus, and left postcentral gyrus (PoCG) in the NT1 group. The patients indicated reduced activity in the bilateral temporal pole middle temporal gyrus (TPOmid), left caudate nucleus (CAU), left parahippocampus, left precuneus (PCUN), right amygdala, and right anterior cingulate and paracingulate gyri. ESS score was negatively correlated with fALFF in the right FFG. The NT1 group revealed decreased connectivity between left TPOmid and right PoCG, the bilateral middle frontal gyrus, left superior frontal gyrus, medial, and right supramarginal gyrus. Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) was negatively correlated with FC of the left TPOmid with left putamen (PUT) in NT1. Compared with healthy controls (HCs), enhanced FC of the left CAU with right FFG was positively associated with MSLT-SOREMPs in patients. Furthermore, increased FC of the left PCUN with right PoCG was positively correlated with SDS score.\nWe found that multiple functional activities related to the processing of emotional regulation and sensory information processing were abnormal, and some were related to clinical characteristics. fALFF in the left postcentral or right precentral gyrus may be used as a biomarker of narcolepsy, whereas fALFF in the right fusiform and the FC strength of the left temporal pole middle temporal gyrus with the putamen may be clinical indicators to assess the drowsiness severity of narcolepsy.", 
    "abstract": "The definitive pathogenic mechanisms underlying chronic migraine (CM) remain unclear. Mounting evidence from functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies suggests that the caudate nucleus (CN) plays a role in the cognitive, sensory, and emotional integration of pain information in patients with migraine. However, evidence concerning the role played by CN in CM patients is limited. Here, we used the CN as the seed to explore patterns of functional connectivity (FC) among healthy controls (HCs), patients with episodic migraine (EM), and patients with CM.\nWe included 25 HCs, 23 EM patients, and 46 CM patients in this study. All participants underwent resting-state functional MRI scans on a GE 3.0T MRI system. We performed seed-based FC analyses among the three groups using the bilateral CNs as seeds. We also compared the subgroups of CM (with and without medication overuse headache, males and females) and performed Pearson's correlation analyses between FC values and the clinical features of CM patients.\nFC values between the right CN and five clusters (mainly involved in emotion, cognition, and sensory-related brain regions) were higher in CM patients than in HCs. Compared to EM patients, enhanced FC values between the bilateral precuneus, left anterior cingulate gyrus, right middle cingulate cortex, right lingual gyrus, and right CN were shown in the CM patients. There were no significant differences between CM patients with and without MOH, males and females. FC values between the bilateral calcarine cortex, lingual gyrus, and right CN were positively correlated with body mass index. Moreover, right CN-related FC values in the left calcarine cortex and right lingual gyrus were inversely correlated with visual analogue scale scores for headaches.\nOur results revealed abnormal right CN-based FC values in CM patients, suggesting dysfunction of brain networks associated with pain perception and multi-regulation (emotion, cognition, and sensory). Aberrant FC of the CN can provide potential neuroimaging markers for the diagnosis and treatment of CM.", 
    "abstract": "Facing the increasing worldwide prevalence of mental disorders, the symptom-based diagnostic criteria struggle to address the urgent public health concern due to the global shortfall in well-qualified professionals. Thanks to the recent advances in neuroimaging techniques, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has surfaced as a new solution to characterize neuropathological biomarkers for detecting functional connectivity (FC) anomalies in mental disorders. However, the existing computer-aided diagnosis models for fMRI analysis suffer from unstable performance on large datasets. To address this issue, we propose an efficient multitask learning (MTL) framework for joint diagnosis of multiple mental disorders using resting-state fMRI data. A novel multiobjective evolutionary clustering algorithm is presented to group regions of interests (ROIs) into different clusters for FC pattern analysis. On the optimal clustering solution, the multicluster multigate mixture-of-expert model is used for the final classification by capturing the highly consistent feature patterns among related diagnostic tasks. Extensive simulation experiments demonstrate that the performance of the proposed framework is superior to that of the other state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, the potential for practical application of the framework is also validated in terms of limited computational resources, real-time analysis, and insufficient training data. The proposed model can identify the remarkable interpretative biomarkers associated with specific mental disorders for clinical interpretation analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Dementia as one of the most prevalent diseases urges for a better understanding of the central mechanisms responsible for clinical symptoms, and necessitates improvement of actual diagnostic capabilities. The brainstem nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) is a promising target for early diagnosis because of its early structural alterations and its relationship to the functional disturbances in the patients. In this study, we applied our improved method of localisation-based LC resting-state fMRI to investigate the differences in central sensory signal processing when comparing functional connectivity (fc) of a patient group with mild cognitive impairment (MCI, n\u00a0=\u00a028) and an age-matched healthy control group (n\u00a0=\u00a029). MCI and control participants could be differentiated in their Mini-Mental-State-Examination (MMSE) scores (p\u2009<\u2009.001) and LC intensity ratio (p\u00a0=\u00a0.010). In the fMRI, LC fc to anterior cingulate cortex (FDR p\u2009<\u2009.001) and left anterior insula (FDR p\u00a0=\u00a0.012) was elevated, and LC fc to right temporoparietal junction (rTPJ, FDR p\u00a0=\u00a0.012) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC, FDR p\u00a0=\u00a0.021) was decreased in the patient group. Importantly, LC to rTPJ connectivity was also positively correlated to MMSE scores in MCI patients (p\u00a0=\u00a0.017). Furthermore, we found a hyperactivation of the left-insula salience network in the MCI patients. Our results and our proposed disease model shed new light on the functional pathogenesis of MCI by directing to attentional network disturbances, which could aid new therapeutic strategies and provide a marker for diagnosis and prediction of disease progression.", 
    "doi": "10.1002/hbm.26039\n10.1002/14651858.CD010783\n10.1186/1471-2377-14-101\n10.1207/s15326942dn2801_4\n10.1523/JNEUROSCI.11-10-03135.1991\n10.1016/j.dadm.2019.02.001\n10.1097/01.jnen.0000182983.87106.d1\n10.1037/a0015851\n10.3233/JAD-191092\n10.1111/ejn.12177\n10.1002/14651858.CD011145.pub2\n10.1186/s13195-017-0297-z\n10.1002/alz.12261\n10.1002/alz.041323\n10.3233/JAD-180847\n10.1093/cercor/bhr385\n10.1037/0894-4105.11.1.13\n10.3389/fnbeh.2015.00350/abstract\n10.1002/ana.410320510\n10.1080/13607863.2019.1584785\n10.3389/fneur.2020.00371/full\n10.3389/fnagi.2020.00002/full\n10.1631/jzus.B1800381\n10.1002/hbm.24935\n10.3233/JAD-160715\n10.1002/gps.5586\n10.1007/s11682-020-00288-5\n10.3233/JAD-2010-1220\n10.1212/WNL.34.7.939\n10.1002/cne.902120104\n10.1002/acn3.50818\n10.1186/s13195-020-00645-y\n10.1016/j.jalz.2012.11.007\n10.1007/s00429-020-02153-z\n10.1136/bmj.h3029\n10.1080/13803395.2014.983462\n10.1037/a0021134\n10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3263-16.2017\n10.1002/hbm.23675\n10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1138-17.2019\n10.3389/fpsyg.2011.00395/abstract\n10.1111/ggi.12280\n10.1001/jamainternmed.2015.2152\n10.1177/1073858413494269\n10.3389/fnagi.2021.597455/full\n10.1371/journal.pone.0036838\n10.1016/j.dadm.2018.05.007\n10.1177/2041669518771715\n10.3389/fnagi.2018.00304/full\n10.3389/fnins.2019.00738/full\n10.1093/brain/awq075", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) has a high disability rate and brings a large disease burden to patients and the country. Significant sex differences exist in both the epidemiological and clinical features in MDD. The effect of sex on brain function in MDD is not clear now. Regional homogeneity (ReHo) and ALFF are widely used research method in the study of brain function. This research aimed to use ReHo and ALFF to explore gender differences in brain function images in MDD.\nEighty first-episode drug-naive patients (47 women and 30 men) with MDD and 85 age, education matched healthy volunteers (47 women and 31 men) were recruited in our study and participated in resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans. ReHo and ALFF were used to assess brain activity, two-way ANOVA and \nWe observed sex-specific patterns and diagnostic differences in MDD Patients, further \nMen and women do have sex differences in brain function, the occipital lobe, calcarine, DLPFC, and DCG were the main different brain regions found between male and female in MDD, which may be the biomarker brain regions that can help diagnose and treat MDD in men and women.", 
    "abstract": "We used the voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) method to investigate brain interhemispheric functional connectivity changes in patients with optic neuritis (ON).\nA total of 22 ON patients and 22 healthy controls (HCs) closely matched in age, sex, and weight were enrolled. All participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Functional interaction between the hemispheres was assessed with the VMHC method. Correlation analysis was applied to explore the association between altered VMHC values in different brain areas and cognitive features. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was applied to distinguish ON patients from HCs.\nCompared with HCs, ON patients had obviously reduced VMHC values in the right superior temporal gyrus, left margin superior gyrus, right superior motor cortex, and left middle cingulate gyrus. a negative relationship between best-corrected visual acuity and VMHC values in left margin superior gyrus was found, besides, the VMHC values within the right superior motor cortex and the right superior temporal gyrus were also anti-correlated with the Hamilton Depression Scales. The ROC curve displayed high diagnostic values in those altered regions.\nAbnormal VMHC values may reflect the underlying neuropathologic mechanism of ON.", 
    "abstract": "Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a psychiatric disorder characterized by functional brain deficits, as documented by resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) studies.\nIn recent years, some studies used machine learning (ML) approaches, based on rs-fMRI features, for classifying MDD from healthy controls (HC). In this context, this review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the results of these studies.\nThe studies research was performed on 3 online databases, examining English-written articles published before August 5, 2022, that performed a two-class ML classification using rs-fMRI features. The search resulted in 20 eligible studies.\nThe reviewed studies showed good performance metrics, with better performance achieved when the dataset was restricted to a more homogeneous group in terms of disease severity. Regions within the default mode network, salience network, and central executive network were reported as the most important features in the classification algorithms.\nThe small sample size together with the methodological and clinical heterogeneity limited the generalizability of the findings.\nIn conclusion, ML applied to rs-fMRI features can be a valid approach to classify MDD and HC subjects and to discover features that can be used for additional investigation of the pathophysiology of the disease.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative condition that gradually impairs cognitive abilities. Recently, various neuroimaging modalities and machine learning methods have surfaced to diagnose Alzheimer's disease. Resting-state fMRI is a neuroimaging modality that has been widely utilized to study brain activity related to neurodegenerative diseases. In literature, the previous studies are limited to the binary classification of Alzheimer's disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment. The application of computer-aided diagnosis for the numerous advancing phases of Alzheimer's disease, on the other hand, remains understudied. This research analyzes and presents methods for multi-label classification of six Alzheimer's stages using rs-fMRI and deep learning. The proposed model solves the multi-class classification problem by extracting the brain's functional connectivity networks from rs-fMRI data and employing two deep learning approaches, Stacked Sparse Autoencoder and Brain Connectivity Graph Convolutional Network. The suggested models' results were assessed using the k-fold cross-validation approach, and an average accuracy of 77.13% and 84.03% was reached for multi-label classification using Stacked Sparse Autoencoders and Brain Connectivity Based Convolutional Network, respectively. An analysis of brain regions was also performed by using the network's learned weights, leading to the conclusion that the precentral gyrus, frontal gyrus, lingual gyrus, and supplementary motor area are the significant brain regions of interest.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Resting-state fMRI has been widely used in investigating the pathophysiology of late-life depression (LLD). Unlike the conventional linear approach, cross-sample entropy (CSE) analysis shows the nonlinear property in fMRI signals between brain regions. Moreover, recent advances in deep learning, such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs), provide a timely application for understanding LLD. Accurate and prompt diagnosis is essential in LLD; hence, this study aimed to combine CNN and CSE analysis to discriminate LLD patients and non-depressed comparison older adults based on brain resting-state fMRI signals. Seventy-seven older adults, including 49 patients and 28 comparison older adults, were included for fMRI scans. Three-dimensional CSEs with volumes corresponding to 90 seed regions of interest of each participant were developed and fed into models for disease classification and depression severity prediction. We obtained a diagnostic accuracy\u2009>\u200985% in the superior frontal gyrus (left dorsolateral and right orbital parts), left insula, and right middle occipital gyrus. With a mean root-mean-square error (RMSE) of 2.41, three separate models were required to predict depressive symptoms in the severe, moderate, and mild depression groups. The CSE volumes in the left inferior parietal lobule, left parahippocampal gyrus, and left postcentral gyrus performed best in each respective model. Combined complexity analysis and deep learning algorithms can classify patients with LLD from comparison older adults and predict symptom severity based on fMRI data. Such application can be utilized in precision medicine for disease detection and symptom monitoring in LLD.", 
    "abstract": "Increasing evidence has indicated that the entire visual pathway from retina to visual cortex may be involved in dysthyroid optic neuropathy (DON) pathological mechanisms.\nTo explore the functional and morphological brain characteristics in DON and their relationship with ophthalmologic performance.\nRetrospective.\nA total of 30 DON patients, 40 thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO) without DON patients and 21 healthy-controls (HCs).\nA 3.0\u2009T, 3D T1-weighted spoiled gradient-recalled echo and gradient-recalled echo-planar imaging.\nFunctional and structural alterations in brain regions were evaluated with fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations, degree centrality (DC), and gray matter volume (GMV). Clinical activity score (CAS) is assessed across patients.\nOne-way analysis of variance with post hoc two sample t-tests (GRF-corrected, voxel level: P\u00a0<\u20090.005, cluster level: P\u00a0<\u20090.05) and correlation analysis (significance level: P\u00a0<\u20090.05).\nCompared to HCs, DON patients had significantly decreased DC values in the bilateral BA17 and BA18 regions. Compared to the TAO group, DON patients had decreased GMV in the left anterior cingulate cortex, left middle frontal gyrus, left lingual gyrus, left parietal gyrus, right Rolandic operculum, left supplementary motor area, and right middle temporal gyrus. In addition, GMV in the right Rolandic operculum was significantly positively correlated with CAS (correlation coefficient: r\u00a0=\u20090.448).\nThis study showed significant morphological and functional alterations in visual cortex and morphological alterations in partial default mode network regions of DON patients, which may provide insights into the mechanism of vision loss and may facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of DON.\n3.\nStage 3.", 
    "abstract": "Fatigue is one of the most common and debilitating non-motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), which could manifest during the early stage of the disease and persist through the disease course. However, the treatment options for fatigue remain limited for patients with PD.\nUsing seed-based resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging, we explored the fatigue-related functional deficiencies in the anterior caudate nucleus, anterior putamen, and posterior putamen in a cohort of early-stage drug-na\u00efve patients with PD. Thirty-eight patients with PD, 19 with and 19 without fatigue, and 31 matched healthy controls were selected. The fatigue status was defined based on the score obtained from the fatigue severity scale (FSS).\nPatients with PD with fatigue exhibited a decreased connectivity in the cerebellar-striatal, cortico-striatal, and mesolimbic-striatal loops. No increased functional connectivity was observed. The abnormal connections of the dorsal striatum subdivisions overlapped to extensive brain regions, including the cerebellum, inferior frontal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, lingual gyrus, rolandic operculum, insular, and hippocampus.\nOur findings revealed that the widespread functional deficiency in the striatal-cerebellar-cerebral cortical network may be critical to the pathology underlying fatigue in the early-stage PD. The key feature of fatigue-related connectivity was observed between the caudate nucleus and the cerebellum, which could serve as a potential biomarker or treatment target for fatigue in early-stage patients with PD in future studies.", 
    "abstract": "Amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) has been widely used for localization of abnormal activity at the single-voxel level in resting-state fMRI (RS-fMRI) studies. However, previous ALFF studies were based on fast Fourier transform (FFT-ALFF). Our recent study found that ALFF based on wavelet transform (Wavelet-ALFF) showed better sensitivity and reproducibility than FFT-ALFF. The current study aimed to test the reliability and validity of Wavelet-ALFF, and apply Wavelet-ALFF to investigate the modulation effect of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). The reliability and validity were assessed on multicenter RS-fMRI datasets under eyes closed (EC) and eyes open (EO) conditions (248 healthy participants in total). We then detected the sensitivity of Wavelet-ALFF using a rTMS modulation dataset (24 healthy participants). For each dataset, Wavelet-ALFF based on five mother wavelets (i.e., db2, bior4.4, morl, meyr and sym3) and FFT-ALFF were calculated in the conventional band and five frequency sub-bands. The results showed that the reliability of both inter-scanner and intra-scanner was higher with Wavelet-ALFF than with FFT-ALFF across multiple frequency bands, especially db2-ALFF in the higher frequency band slow-2 (0.1992-0.25\u2009Hz). In terms of validity, the multicenter ECEO datasets showed that the effect sizes of Wavelet-ALFF with all mother wavelets (especially for db2-ALFF) were larger than those of FFT-ALFF across multiple frequency bands. Furthermore, Wavelet-ALFF detected a larger modulation effect than FFT-ALFF. Collectively, Wavelet db2-ALFF showed the best reliability and validity, suggesting that db2-ALFF may offer a powerful metric for inspecting regional spontaneous brain activities in future studies.", 
    "abstract": "Disorders of consciousness (DOC) are one of the most frequent complications in patients after severe brain injury, mainly caused by trauma, stroke, and anoxia. With the development of neuromodulation techniques, novel therapies including deep brain stimulation (DBS) and spinal cord stimulation (SCS) have been employed to treat DOC. Here, we report the case of a DOC patient receiving short-term SCS (st-SCS) treatment and showing improvement monitored by resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) and quantitative EEG (qEEG). A 35-year-old male with severe traumatic brain injury remained comatose for 3 months. The patient was evaluated using JFK coma recovery scale-revised (CRS-R) and showed no improvement within 1 month. He received st-SCS surgery 93 days after the injury and the stimulation was applied the day after surgery. He regained communication according to instructions on day 21 after surgery and improved from a vegetative state/unwakefulness syndrome to an emergence from a minimally conscious state. To our knowledge, this report is the first published case of st-SCS in a patient with DOC. These results shed light that st-SCS may be effective in treating certain patients with DOC, which may reduce patients' suffering during treatment and lessen financial burden.", 
    "abstract": "Endometriosis is the leading cause of chronic pelvic pain. Alterations in brain functional connectivity have been reported in adult women with endometriosis-associated pain (EAP), however, it is still unknown if similar patterns of changes exist in adolescents.\nIn this pilot study, resting-state fMRI scans were obtained from 11 adolescent and young women with EAP and 14 healthy female controls. Using a seed-to-voxel approach, we investigated functional connectivity between the anterior insula, medial prefrontal cortex, and the rest of the brain. Furthermore, we explored whether potential functional connectivity differences were correlated with clinical characteristics including disease duration, pain intensity, and different psychosocial factors (pain catastrophizing, fear of pain, functional disability, anxiety, and depression).\nOur findings revealed that patients with EAP demonstrated significantly decreased connectivity between the right anterior insula and two clusters: one in the right cerebellum, and one in the left middle frontal gyrus compared to controls. Additionally, functional connectivity between the right anterior insula and the right cerebellum was positively associated with pain intensity levels. In patients with EAP, brain changes were also correlated with state anxiety and fear of pain.\nOur results are relevant not only for understanding the brain characteristics underlying EAP at a younger age, but also in enhancing future pain treatment efforts by supporting the involvement of the central nervous system in endometriosis.", 
    "abstract": "Pseudobulbar affect (PBA), referring to exaggerated or inappropriate episodes of laughing and/or crying without an apparent motivating stimulus, has been mainly attributed to bilateral degeneration of corticobulbar tracts. We aimed at exploring brain functional connectivity (FC) correlates of PBA in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the most common motor neuron disease, frequently associated with PBA. Resting state functional MRI (RS-fMRI) independent component (ICA) and seed-based analyses and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) whole-brain analysis were performed on 27 ALS patients (13 with PBA; 14 without PBA) and 26 healthy controls (HC), for investigating functional and structural abnormalities in ALS patients compared to HC and in patients with PBA compared to patients without PBA. Between-patient analysis revealed different FC patterns, especially regarding decreased FC in several areas of cognitive (default mode, frontoparietal, salience) and sensory-motor networks in patients with PBA compared to those without PBA. However, no significant differences were found in gray matter atrophy. Seed-based analysis showed increased FC between middle cerebellar peduncles and posterior cingulate cortex and decreased FC between middle cerebellar peduncles and left middle frontal gyrus in patients with PBA compared to patients without PBA. Our findings suggest that some alterations of fronto-tempo-parietal-cerebellar circuits could be related to PBA in ALS. In particular, the abnormal FC between cerebellum and posterior cingulate cortex and left middle frontal gyrus in patients with PBA compared to patients without PBA highlights a crucial role of the cerebellum in regulating emotion expression in patients with ALS.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) has been proved to be a useful tool to study the brain mechanism in the quest to probe the distinct pattern of inter-region interactions in the brain. As an important application of RS-fMRI, the graph-based approach characterizes the brain as a complex network. However, the network is susceptible to its scale that determines the trade-off between sensitivity and anatomical variability.\nTo balance sensitivity and anatomical variability, a pyramid representation of the functional network is proposed, which is composed of five individual networks reconstructed at multiple scales.\nThe pyramid representation of the functional network was applied to two groups of participants, including patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and normal elderly (NC) individuals, as a demonstration. Features were extracted from the multi-scale networks and were evaluated with their inter-group differences between AD and NC, as well as the discriminative power in recognizing AD. Moreover, the proposed method was also validated by another dataset from people with autism.\nThe different features reflect the highest sensitivity to distinguish AD at different scales. In addition, the combined features have higher accuracy than any single scale-based feature. These findings highlight the potential use of multi-scale features as markers of the disrupted topological organization in AD networks.\nWe believe that multi-scale metrics could provide a more comprehensive characterization of the functional network and thus provide a promising solution for representing the underlying functional mechanism in the human brain on a multi-scale basis.", 
    "abstract": "Resting state fMRI (rs-fMRI) provides an excellent platform for examining the amplitude of low frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and fractional amplitude of low frequency fluctuations (fALFF), which are key indices of brain functioning. However, ALFF and fALFF have been used only sporadically to study autism. rs-fMRI data from 69 children (40 autistic, mean age\u00a0=\u00a08.47\u2009\u00b1\u20092.20\u2009years; age range: 5.2 to 13.2; and 29 non-autistic, mean age\u00a0=\u00a09.02\u2009\u00b1\u20091.97\u2009years; age range 5.9 to 12.9) were obtained from the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE II). ALFF and fALFF were measured using CONN connectivity toolbox and SPM12, at whole-brain & network-levels. A two-sampled t-test and a 2 Group (autistic, non-autistic)\u2009\u00d7\u20097 Networks ANOVA were conducted to test group differences in ALFF and fALFF. The whole-brain analysis identified significantly reduced ALFF values for autistic participants in left parietal opercular cortex, precuneus, and right insula. At the network level, there was a significant effect of diagnostic group and brain network on ALFF values, and only significant effect of network, not group, on fALFF values. Regression analyses indicated a significant effect of age on ALFF values of certain networks in autistic participants. Such intrinsically different network-level responses in autistic participants may have implications for task-level recruitment and synchronization of brain areas, which may in turn impact optimal cognitive functioning. Moreover, differences in low frequency fluctuations of key networks, such as the DMN and SN, may underlie alterations in brain responses in autism that are frequently reported in the literature.", 
    "abstract": "Subject motion is a well-known confound in resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) and the analysis of functional connectivity. Consequently, several clean-up strategies have been established to minimize the impact of subject motion. Physiological signals in response to cardiac activity and respiration are also known to alter the apparent rs-fMRI connectivity. Comprehensive comparisons of common noise regression techniques showed that the \"Independent Component Analysis based strategy for Automatic Removal of Motion Artifacts\" (ICA-AROMA) was a preferred pre-processing technique for teenagers and adults. However, motion and physiological noise characteristics may differ substantially for older adults. Here, we present a comprehensive comparison of noise-regression techniques for older adults from a large multi-site clinical trial of exercise and intensive pharmacological vascular risk factor reduction. The Risk Reduction for Alzheimer's Disease (rrAD) trial included hypertensive older adults (60-84 years old) at elevated risk of developing Alzheimer's Disease (AD). We compared the performance of censoring, censoring combined with global signal regression, non-aggressive and aggressive ICA-AROMA, as well as the Spatially Organized Component Klassifikator (SOCK) on the rs-fMRI baseline scans from 434 rrAD subjects. All techniques were rated based on network reproducibility, network identifiability, edge activity, spatial smoothness, and loss of temporal degrees of freedom (tDOF). We found that non-aggressive ICA-AROMA did not perform as well as the other four techniques, which performed table with marginal differences, demonstrating the validity of these techniques. Considering reproducibility as the most important factor for longitudinal studies, given low false-positive rates and a better preserved, more cohesive temporal structure, currently aggressive ICA-AROMA is likely the most suitable noise regression technique for rs-fMRI studies of older adults.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a heterogeneous disorder with great variability in motor and non-motor manifestations. It is hypothesized that different motor subtypes are characterized by different neuropsychiatric and cognitive symptoms, but the underlying correlates in cerebral connectivity remain unknown. Our aim is to compare brain network connectivity between the postural instability and gait disorder (PIGD) and tremor-dominant (TD) subtypes, using both a within- and between-network analysis.\nThis cross-sectional resting-state fMRI study includes 81 PD patients, 54 belonging to the PIGD and 27 to the TD subgroup. Group-level spatial maps were created using independent component analysis. Differences in functional connectivity were investigated using dual regression analysis and inter-network connectivity analysis. An additional voxel-based morphometry analysis was performed to examine if results were influenced by grey matter atrophy.\nThe PIGD subgroup scored worse than the TD subgroup on all cognitive domains. Resting-state fMRI network analyses suggested that the connection between the visual and sensorimotor network is a potential differentiator between PIGD and TD subgroups. However, after correcting for dopaminergic medication use these results were not significant anymore. There was no between-group difference in grey matter volume.\nDespite clear motor and cognitive differences between the PIGD and TD subtypes, no significant differences were found in network connectivity. Methodological challenges, substantial symptom heterogeneity and many involved variables make analyses and hypothesis building around PD subtypes highly complex. More sensitive visualisation methods combined with machine learning approaches may be required in the search for characteristic underpinnings of PD subtypes.", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a disease with prominent individual, medical, and economic impacts. Drug therapy and other treatment methods (such as Electroconvulsive therapy) may induce treatment-resistance and have associated side effects including loss of memory, decrease of reaction time, and residual symptoms. Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) is a novel and non-invasive treatment approach which stimulates brain structures with no side-effects. However, it remains little understood whether and how the neural activation is modulated by taVNS in MDD patients. Herein, we used the regional homogeneity (ReHo) to investigate the brain activity in first-episode, drug-na\u00efve MDD patients after taVNS treatment.\nTwenty-two first-episode, drug-na\u00efve MDD patients were enrolled in the study. These patients received the first taVNS treatment at the baseline time, and underwent resting-state MRI scanning twice, before and after taVNS. All the patients then received taVNS treatments for 4 weeks. The severity of depression was assessed by the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) at the baseline time and after 4-week's treatment. Pearson analysis was used to assess the correlation between alterations of ReHo and changes of the HAMD scores. Two patients were excluded due to excessive head movement, two patients lack clinical data in the fourth week, thus, imaging analysis was performed in 20 patients, while correlation analysis between clinical and imaging data was performed in only 18 patients.\nThere were significant differences in the ReHo values in first-episode, drug-na\u00efve MDD patients between pre- or post- taVNS. The primary finding is that the patients exhibited a significantly lower ReHo in the left/right median cingulate cortex, the left precentral gyrus, the left postcentral gyrus, the right calcarine cortex, the left supplementary motor area, the left paracentral lobule, and the right lingual gyrus. Pearson analysis revealed a positive correlation between changes of ReHo in the right median cingulate cortex/the left supplementary motor area and changes of HAMD scores after taVNS.\nThe decreased ReHo were found after taVNS. The sensorimotor, limbic and visual-related brain regions may play an important role in understanding the underlying neural mechanisms and be the target brain regions in the further therapy.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of chemotherapy on brain functional resting-state signal variability and cognitive function in older long-term survivors of breast cancer. This prospective longitudinal study enrolled women age \u2265 65 years of age who were breast cancer survivors after exposure to chemotherapy (CH), age-matched survivors not exposed to chemotherapy, and healthy controls. Participants completed resting-state functional brain MRI and neurocognitive testing upon enrollment (timepoint 1, TP1) and again two years later (timepoint 2, TP2). There were 20 participants in each of the three groups at TP1. The CH group showed a significant decrease in SD", 
    "abstract": "Glaucoma is one of the leading irreversible causes of blindness worldwide, and previous studies have shown that there is abnormal functional connectivity (FC) in the visual cortex of glaucoma patients. The thalamus is a relay nucleus for visual signals; however, it is not yet clear how the FC of the thalamus is altered in glaucoma. This study investigated the alterations in thalamic FC in patients with primary angle-closure glaucoma (PACG) by using resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI). We hypothesized that PACG patients have abnormal FC between the thalamus and visual as well as extravisual brain regions.\nClinically confirmed PACG patients and age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HCs) were evaluated by T1 anatomical and functional MRI on a 3 T scanner. Thirty-four PACG patients and 33 HCs were included in the rs-fMRI analysis. All PACG patients underwent complete ophthalmological examinations; included retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (RNFLT), intraocular pressure (IOP), average cup-to-disc ratio (A-C/D), and vertical cup-to-disc ratio (V-C/D). After the MRI data were preprocessed, the bilateral thalamus was chosen as the seed point; and the differences in resting-state FC between groups were evaluated. The brain regions that significantly differed between PACG patients and HCs were identified, and the correlations were then evaluated between the FC coefficients of these regions and clinical variables.\nCompared with the HCs, the PACG patients showed decreased FC between the bilateral thalamus and right transverse temporal gyrus, between the bilateral thalamus and left anterior cingulate cortex, and between the left thalamus and left insula. Concurrently, increased FC was found between the bilateral thalamus and left superior frontal gyrus in PACG patients. The FC between the bilateral thalamus and left superior frontal gyrus was positively correlated with RNFLT and negatively correlated with the A-C/D and V-C/D. The FC between the left thalamus and left insula was negatively correlated with IOP.\nExtensive abnormal resting-state functional connections between the thalamus and visual and extravisual brain areas were found in PACG patients, and there were certain correlations with clinical variables, suggesting that abnormal thalamic FC plays an important role in the progression of PACG.", 
    "abstract": "Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a noninvasive brain stimulation technique that applied to modulate brain activity and enhance motor recovery. However, the neurobiological substrates underlying the effects of tDCS on brain function remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the central mechanisms of tDCS on improving the athletic performance of male rowing athletes.\nTwelve right-handed male professional rowing athletes received tDCS over the left primary motor cortex while undergoing regular training. The resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data were acquired before and after tDCS. Measures of amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) were calculated and compared between baseline and follow-up, as well as topological measures including global and local efficiency of functional brain networks constructed by graph theoretical analysis.\nMale rowing athletes showed increased isokinetic muscle strength of the left knee and left shoulder after tDCS. Increased ALFF values were found in the right precentral gyrus of male rowing athletes after tDCS when compared with those before tDCS. In addition, male rowing athletes showed increased ReHo values in the left paracentral lobule following tDCS. Moreover, increased nodal global efficiency was identified in the left inferior frontal gyrus (opercular part) of male rowing athletes after tDCS.\nThe findings suggested that simultaneous tDCS-induced excitation over the primary motor cortex might potentially improve the overall athletic performance in male rowing athletes through the right precentral gyrus and left paracentral lobule, as well as left inferior frontal gyrus.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with post stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI) frequently show changes in brain functional connectivity (FC). However, the underlying neurobiological mechanism of PSCI remains unclear. This study first applied degree centrality (DC) analysis to investigate the intrinsic dysconnectivity pattern of the brain in PSCI patients, as well as to explore the relationship between these changes and cognitive function.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scanning was performed on all participants, including those with PSCI (n\u00a0=\u00a020), stroke with no cognitive impairment (NPSCI, n\u00a0=\u00a015), and healthy controls (HC, n\u00a0=\u00a029). DC values were used to identify differences in FC among the three groups. The relationship between abnormal DC values and cognitive function was examined.\nPSCI and NPSCI had significantly higher DC values in the right parahippocampal gyrus (PhG) in comparison with HC (p\uff1c0.05). In addition, DC values of the right PhG showed a negative correlation with MoCA scores (r\u00a0=\u00a0\u00a0-\u00a00.405, p\u00a0=\u00a00.001), the Auditory Verbal Learning Test (AVLT; r\u00a0=\u00a0\u00a0-\u00a00.278, p\u00a0=\u00a00.026), Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test-Delayed Recall (RCFT-DR; r\u00a0=\u00a0\u00a0-\u00a00.250, p\u00a0=\u00a00.046), Symbol Digit Modality Test (SDMT; r\u00a0=\u00a0\u00a0-\u00a00.385, p\u00a0=\u00a00.002), Boston Naming Test (BNT; r\u00a0=\u00a0\u00a0-\u00a00.402, p\u00a0=\u00a00.001) and Animal Fluency Test (AFT; r\u00a0=\u00a0\u00a0-\u00a00.395, p\u00a0=\u00a00.001). However, DC was significantly positively correlated with the Trail Making Test (TMT-A; r\u00a0=\u00a00.347, p\u00a0=\u00a00.005) and TMT-B (r\u00a0=\u00a00.294, p\u00a0=\u00a00.019).\nDC values were increased in the right PhG following a mild subcortical stroke. DC values in the PhG were negatively correlated with cognitive function, which may indicate brain nodes reorganization.", 
    "abstract": "Respiration can induce motion and CO\nWhat does the brain do when we breathe? Humans and other animals with lungs depend on breathing to supply their cells with oxygen for energy production. Neurons in the brain are supplied oxygen through an intricate system of blood vessels. When active, neurons consume a lot of energy and require a steady supply of oxygen-rich blood. In fact, this relationship between blood vessels and activity of neurons in the brain is so tightly linked that to study neuron activity researchers and clinicians often use an approach called functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to analyze the flow of oxygenated blood in the brain. This imaging technique allows scientists to map how active different parts of the brain are at any given time without the need for an invasive medical procedure. Unfortunately, fMRI results are affected by the cycles of inhalation and exhalation that take place while breathing, even when an individual is at rest. This is because the rate and depth of respiration can vary, resulting in the body moving unpredictably and in CO", 
    "abstract": "Most stroke repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) studies have used hand motor hotspots as rTMS stimulation targets; in addition, recent studies demonstrated that functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) task activation could be used to determine suitable targets due to its ability to reveal individualized precise and stronger functional connectivity with motor-related brain regions. However, rTMS is unlikely to elicit motor evoked potentials in the affected hemisphere, nor would activity be detected when stroke patients with severe hemiplegia perform an fMRI motor task using the affected limbs. The current study proposed that the peak voxel in the resting-state fMRI (RS-fMRI) motor network determined by independent component analysis (ICA) could be a potential stimulation target. Twenty-one healthy young subjects underwent RS-fMRI at three visits (V1 and V2 on a GE MR750 scanner and V3 on a Siemens Prisma) under eyes-open (EO) and eyes-closed (EC) conditions. Single-subject ICA with different total number of components (20, 30, and 40) were evaluated, and then the locations of peak voxels on the left and right sides of the sensorimotor network (SMN) were identified. While most ICA RS-fMRI studies have been carried out on the group level, that is, Group-ICA, the current study performed individual ICA because only the individual analysis could guide the individual target of rTMS. The intra- (test-retest) and inter-scanner reliabilities of the peak location were calculated. The use of 40 components resulted in the highest test-retest reliability of the peak location in both the left and right SMN compared with that determined when 20 and 30 components were used for both EC and EO conditions. ICA with 40 components might be another way to define a potential target in the SMN for poststroke rTMS treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Neuroimaging studies have shown brain abnormalities in Down syndrome (DS) but have not clarified the underlying mechanisms of dysfunction. Here, we investigated the degree centrality (DC) abnormalities found in the DS group compared with the control group, and we conducted seed-based functional connectivity (FC) with the significant clusters found in DC. Moreover, we used the significant clusters of DC and the seed-based FC to elucidate differences between brain networks in DS compared with controls.\nThe sample comprised 18 persons with DS (\nDC analysis showed increased DC in the DS in temporal and right frontal lobe, as well as in the left caudate and rectus and decreased DC in the DS in regions of the left frontal lobe. Regarding seed-based FC, DS showed increased and decreased FC. Significant differences were also found between networks using Yeo parcellations, showing both hyperconnectivity and hypoconnectivity between and within networks.\nDC, seed-based FC and brain networks seem altered in DS, finding hypo- and hyperconnectivity depending on the areas. Network analysis revealed between- and within-network differences, and these abnormalities shown in DS could be related to the characteristics of the population.", 
    "abstract": "To examine the difference in the topological properties of brain functional network between the children with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and healthy controls, and to explore the relationships between these properties and cognitive scores of OSA children. Twenty-four OSA children (6.5\u2009\u00b1\u20092.8\u00a0years, 15 males) and 26 healthy controls (8.0\u2009\u00b1\u20092.9\u00a0years, 11 males) underwent resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI), based on which brain functional networks were constructed. We compared the global and regional topological properties of the network between OSA children and healthy controls. Partial correlation analysis was performed between topological properties and cognitive scores across OSA children. When comparing the OSA children with the healthy controls, lower full-scale intelligent quotient (FIQ) and verbal intelligent quotient (VIQ) were observed. Additionally, nodal degree centrality decreased in the bilateral anterior cingulate and paracingulate gyrus, but increased in the right middle frontal gyrus, the left fusiform gyrus, and the left supramarginal gyrus. Nodal efficiency decreased in the right precentral gyrus, and the bilateral anterior cingulate and paracingulate gyrus, but increased in the left fusiform gyrus. Nodal betweenness centrality increased in the dorsolateral part of the right superior frontal gyrus, the left fusiform gyrus, and the left supramarginal\u2002gyrus. Further, the nodal degree centrality in the left supramarginal\u2002gyrus was positively correlated with FIQ. In contrast, none of global topological properties showed difference between those two groups. The outcomes of OSA may impaired the regional topological properties of the brain functional network of OSA children, which may be potential neural mechanism underlying the cognitive declines of these patients.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Aberrant resting-state connectivity within and between the Default Mode Network, the Executive Control Network, and the Salience Network is well-established in schizophrenia. Meta-analyses have identified that bilateral lingual gyrus is as the only region showing hyperactivity in schizophrenia and there are reports of increased connectivity between the lingual gyrus and other brain regions in schizophrenia. It is not clear whether these abnormalities represent state or trait markers of the illness, i.e., if they are only present during the acute phase of the illness (state) or if they reflect a predisposition to schizophrenia (trait). In this study, we used a seed-based functional connectivity analysis to investigate brain networks in schizophrenia patients who are in the stable phase of their illness and assess functional connectivity using seeds in the lingual gyrus, the posterior cingulate, the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), the right anterior insula (rAI) and the right orbital frontoinsula. Twenty patients with schizophrenia in a stable phase of their illness (as defined by the course of illness and Signs and Symptoms of Psychotic Illness (SSPI) scores) and 20 age and sex-matched healthy controls underwent resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (rs-fMRI). Data was analysed using the Data Processing Assistant for Resting-State fMRI Advanced Edition (DPARSFA) V3.1 ( http://rfmri.org/DPARSF ) and the statistical parametric mapping software 8 (SPM8). Compared with healthy controls, patients with schizophrenia showed increased connectivity between the left lingual gyrus and the middle frontal gyrus, and the cingulate cortex. Lingual gyrus hyper-connectivity may be a stable trait neuroimaging marker for schizophrenia. Our findings suggest that aberrant connectivity in major resting-state networks may not be present after the acute illness has stabilised.", 
    "abstract": "Subjectively reported sleepiness and objectively measured vigilance are often used to assess and monitor operating performance. Evidence suggests that the response patterns of the two measures are independent of each other. However, the neural mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether subjective sleepiness and objective vigilance were associated with each other. Thirty-three participants were subjected to 34\u00a0h of acute sleep deprivation. We collected sleepiness, vigilance, and resting-state fMRI data. We also located the neural mechanism of isolation of object and subject parameters. Firstly, the correlation analysis showed that there was no statistically significant correlation between the changes in vigilance and sleepiness during the sleep deprivation period. Then, implementing the support vector machine algorithm through functional connectivities as features, we found that different functional connectivity patterns underline the isolation of these two factors during sleep deprivation. The functional connectivities involved in characterizing the vulnerability of objective vigilance are more extensive, involving the connectivities within the sensorimotor network, between the subcortical and cortical network, and among multiple cortical networks. The functional connectivity involved in characterizing the vulnerability of subjective sleepiness is limited to the communication between the subcortical thalamus and the somatosensory cortex. In addition, we found that implementing global signal regression would reduce the model's power to predict vigilance and sleepiness. This work contributes to our understanding of how sleep deprivation affects individual cognition and behavior, and will be of use in the evaluation and prediction of cognitive performance during sleep loss.\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11571-021-09772-0.", 
    "abstract": "To investigate the alterations of topological organization of the whole brain functional networks in hypertension patients with cognitive impairment (HTN-CI) and characterize its relationship with cognitive scores.\nFifty-seven hypertension patients with cognitive impairment and 59 hypertension patients with normal cognition (HTN-NC), and 49 healthy controls (HCs) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. Graph theoretical analysis was used to investigate the altered topological organization of the functional brain networks. The global topological properties and nodal metrics were compared among the three groups. Network-based statistic (NBS) analysis was used to determine the connected subnetwork. The relationships between network metrics and cognitive scores were also characterized.\nHTN-CI patients exhibited significantly decreased global efficiency, lambda, and increased shortest path length when compared with HCs. In addition, both HTN-CI and HTN-NC groups exhibited altered nodal degree centrality and nodal efficiency in the right precentral gyrus. The disruptions of global network metrics (lambda, Lp) and the nodal metrics (degree centrality and nodal efficiency) in the right precentral gyrus were positively correlated with the MoCA scores in HTN-CI. NBS analysis demonstrated that decreased subnetwork connectivity was present both in the HTN-CI and HTN-NC groups, which were mainly involved in the default mode network, frontoparietal network, and cingulo-opercular network.\nThis study demonstrated the alterations of topographical organization and subnetwork connectivity of functional brain networks in HTN-CI. In addition, the global and nodal network properties were correlated with cognitive scores, which may provide useful insights for the understanding of neuropsychological mechanisms underlying HTN-CI.", 
    "abstract": "The olivo-cerebellar circuit is thought to play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of essential tremor (ET). Whether olivo-cerebellar circuit dysfunction is also present at rest, in the absence of clinical tremor and linked voluntary movement, remains unclear. Assessing this network in detail with fMRI is challenging, considering the brainstem is close to major arteries and pulsatile cerebrospinal fluid-filled spaces obscuring signals of interest. Here, we used methods tailored to the analysis of infratentorial structures. We hypothesize that the olivo-cerebellar circuit shows altered intra-network connectivity at rest and decreased functional coupling with other parts of the motor network in ET. In 17 ET patients and 19 healthy controls, we investigated using resting state fMRI intracerebellar functional and effective connectivity on a dedicated cerebellar atlas. With independent component analysis, we investigated data-driven cerebellar motor network activations during rest. Finally, whole-brain connectivity of cerebellar motor structures was investigated using identified components. In ET, olivo-cerebellar pathways show decreased functional connectivity compared with healthy controls. Effective connectivity analysis showed an increased inhibitory influence of the dentate nucleus towards the inferior olive. Cerebellar independent component analyses showed motor resting state networks are less strongly connected to the cerebral cortex compared to controls. Our results indicate the olivo-cerebellar circuit to be affected at rest. Also, the cerebellum is \"disconnected\" from the rest of the motor network. Aberrant activity, generated within the olivo-cerebellar circuit could, during action, spread towards other parts of the motor circuit and potentially underlie the characteristic tremor of this patient group.", 
    "abstract": "Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) evaluates brain activity using blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast. Resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) examines spontaneous brain function using BOLD in the absence of a task, and the default mode network (DMN) has been identified from that. The DMN is a set of nodes within the brain that appear to be active and in communication when the subject is in an awake resting state. In addition to signal changes related to neural activity, it is thought that the BOLD signal may be affected by systemic low-frequency oscillations (SysLFOs) that are non-neuronal in source and likely propagate throughout the brain to arrive at different regions at different times. However, it may be difficult to distinguish between the response due to neuronal activity and the arrival of a SysLFO in specific regions. Conventional single-shot EPI (Conv) acquisition requires a longish repetition time, but faster image acquisition has recently become possible with multiband excitation EPI (MB). In this study, we evaluated the time-lag between nodes of the DMN using both Conv and MB protocols to determine whether it is possible to distinguish between neuronal activity and SysLFO related responses during rsfMRI. While the Conv protocol data suggested that SysLFOs substantially influence the apparent time-lag of neuronal activity, the MB protocol data implied that the effects of SysLFOs and neuronal activity on the BOLD response may be separated. Using a higher time-resolution acquisition for rsfMRI might help to distinguish neuronal activity induced changes to the BOLD response from those induced by non-neuronal sources.", 
    "abstract": "Bone metastasis pain (BMP) is one of the most prevalent symptoms among cancer survivors. The present study aims to explore the brain functional activity and connectivity patterns in BMP of lung cancer patients preliminarily. Thirty BMP patients and 33 healthy controls (HCs) matched for age and sex were recruited from inpatients and communities, respectively. All participants underwent fMRI data acquisition and pain assessment. Low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) were applied to evaluate brain functional activity. Then, functional connectivity (FC) was calculated for the ALFF- and ReHo-identified seed brain regions. A two-sample ", 
    "abstract": "The striatum is postulated to play a central role in gating cortical processing during goal-oriented behavior. While many human neuroimaging studies have treated the striatum as an undivided whole or several homogeneous compartments, some recent studies showed that its circuitry is topographically organized and has more complex relations with the cortical networks than previously assumed. Here, we took a gradient functional connectivity mapping approach that utilizes the entire anatomical space of the caudate nucleus to examine the organization of its functional relationship with the rest of the brain and how its topographic mapping changes with age. We defined the topography of the caudate functional connectivity using three publicly available resting-state fMRI datasets. We replicated and extended previous findings. First, we found two stable gradients of caudate connectivity patterns along its medial-lateral (M-L) and anterior-posterior (A-P) axes, supporting findings from previous tract-tracing studies of non-human primates that there are at least two main organizational principles within the caudate nucleus. Second, unlike previous emphasis of the A-P topology, we showed that the differential connectivity patterns along the M-L gradient of caudate are more clearly organized with the large-scale neural networks; such that brain networks associated with internal vs. external orienting behavior are respectively more closely linked to the medial vs. lateral extent of the caudate. Third, the caudate's M-L organization showed greater age-related reduction in integrity, which was further associated with age-related changes in behavioral measures of executive functions. In sum, our analysis confirmed a sometimes overlooked M-L functional connectivity gradient within the caudate nucleus, with its lateral longitudinal zone more closely linked to the frontoparietal cortical circuits and age-related changes in cognitive control. These findings provide a more precise mapping of the human caudate functional connectivity, both in terms of the gradient organization with cortical networks and age-related changes in such organization.", 
    "abstract": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common mental disorder in children, which is related to inattention and hyperactivity. These symptoms are associated with abnormal interactions of brain networks. We used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) based on the graph theory to explore the topology property changes of brain networks between an ADHD group and a normal group. The more refined AAL_1024 atlas was used to construct the functional networks with high nodal resolution, for detecting more subtle changes in brain regions and differences among groups. We compared altered topology properties of brain network between the groups from multilevel, mainly including modularity at mesolevel. Specifically, we analyzed the similarities and differences of module compositions between the two groups. The results found that the ADHD group showed stronger economic small-world network property, while the clustering coefficient was significantly lower than the normal group; the frontal and occipital lobes showed smaller node degree and global efficiency between disease statuses. The modularity results also showed that the module number of the ADHD group decreased, and the ADHD group had short-range overconnectivity within module and long-range underconnectivity between modules. Moreover, modules containing long-range connections between the frontal and occipital lobes disappeared, indicating that there was lack of top-down control information between the executive control region and the visual processing region in the ADHD group. Our results suggested that these abnormal regions were related to executive control and attention deficit of ADHD patients. These findings helped to better understand how brain function correlates with the ADHD symptoms and complement the fewer modularity elaboration of ADHD research.", 
    "abstract": "Clinical response to antipsychotic drug treatment is highly variable, yet prognostic biomarkers are lacking. The goal of the present study was to test whether the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF), as measured from baseline resting-state fMRI data, can serve as a potential biomarker of treatment response to antipsychotics. Patients in the first episode of psychosis (n\u2009=\u2009126) were enrolled in two prospective studies employing second-generation antipsychotics (risperidone or aripiprazole). Patients were scanned at the initiation of treatment on a 3T MRI scanner (Study 1, GE Signa HDx, n\u2009=\u200974; Study 2, Siemens Prisma, n\u2009=\u200952). Voxelwise fALFF derived from baseline resting-state fMRI scans served as the primary measure of interest, providing a hypothesis-free (as opposed to region-of-interest) search for regions of the brain that might be predictive of response. At baseline, patients who would later meet strict criteria for clinical response (defined as two consecutive ratings of much or very much improved on the CGI, as well as a rating of \u22643 on psychosis-related items of the BPRS-A) demonstrated significantly greater baseline fALFF in bilateral orbitofrontal cortex compared to non-responders. Thus, spontaneous activity in orbitofrontal cortex may serve as a prognostic biomarker of antipsychotic treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is the second most common retinal vascular disorder after diabetic retinopathy, which is the main cause of vision loss. Retinal vein occlusion might lead to macular edema, causing severe vision loss. Previous neuroimaging studies of patients with RVO demonstrated that RVO was accompanied by cerebral changes, and was related to stroke. The purpose of the study is to investigate synchronous neural activity changes in patients with RVO.\nA total of 50 patients with RVO and 48 healthy subjects with matched sex, age, and education were enrolled in the study. The ReHo method was applied to investigate synchronous neural activity changes in patients with RVO.\nCompared with HC, patients with RVO showed increased ReHo values in the bilateral cerebellum_4_5. On the contrary, patients with RVO had decreased ReHo values in the bilateral middle occipital gyrus, right cerebelum_crus1, and right inferior temporal gyrus.\nOur study demonstrated that patients with RVO were associated with abnormal synchronous neural activities in the cerebellum, middle occipital gyrus, and inferior temporal gyrus. These findings shed new insight into neural mechanisms of vision loss in patients with RVO.", 
    "abstract": "Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast is sensitive to local hemodynamic changes and thus is applicable to imaging perfusion or vascular reactivity. However, knowledge about its measurement characteristics compared to reference standard perfusion imaging is limited. This study longitudinally evaluated perfusion in patients with steno-occlusive disease using resting-state functional MRI (rsfMRI) acquired before and within nine days of anterior circulation revascularization in patients with large cerebral artery steno-occlusive diseases. The reliability and sensitivity to longitudinal changes of rsfMRI temporal correlation (Rc) and time delay (TDc) relative to the cerebellar signal were examined voxel-wise in comparison with single-photon emission CT (SPECT) cerebral blood flow (CBF) using the within-subject standard deviation (Sw) and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). For statistical comparisons, the standard deviation (SD) of longitudinal changes within the cerebellum, the number of voxels with significant changes in the left middle cerebral artery territory ipsilateral to surgery, and their average changes relative to the cerebellar SD were evaluated. The test-retest reliability of the fMRI metrics was also similarly evaluated using the human connectome project (HCP) healthy young adult dataset. The test-retest time interval was 31\u00a0\u00b1\u00a018 days. Test-retest reliability was significantly higher for SPECT (cerebellar SD: -2.59\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.20) than for fMRI metrics (cerebellar SD: Rc, -2.34\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.24, p\u00a0=\u00a00.04; TDc, -2.19\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.21, p\u00a0=\u00a00.003). Sensitivity to postoperative changes, which was evaluated as the number of voxels, was significantly higher for fMRI TDc\u00a0(8.78\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.72) than for Rc (7.42\u00a0\u00b1\u00a01.48, p\u00a0=\u00a00.03) or SPECT CBF (6.88\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.67, p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). The ratio between the average Rc, TDc, and SPECT CBF changes within the left MCA target region and cerebellar SD was also significantly higher for fMRI TDc (1.21\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.79) than Rc (0.48\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.94, p\u00a0=\u00a00.006) or SPECT CBF (0.23\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.57, p\u00a0=\u00a00.001). The measurement variability of time delay was also larger than that of temporal correlation in HCP data within the cerebellum (t\u00a0=\u00a0-8.7, p\u00a0<\u00a00.001) or in the whole-brain (t\u00a0=\u00a0-27.4, p\u00a0<\u00a00.001) gray matter. These data suggest that fMRI time delay is more sensitive to the hemodynamic changes than SPECT CBF, although the reliability is lower. The implication for fMRI connectivity studies is that temporal correlation can be significantly decreased due to altered hemodynamics, even in cases with normal CBF.", 
    "abstract": "Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) plays an essential role in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD) and its treatment. However, it's still unclear whether the effects of disease and antidepressant treatment on ACC perform diversely in neural mechanisms.\nFifty-nine MDD patients completed resting-state fMRI scanning twice at baseline and after 12-week selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment, respectively in acute state and remission state. Fifty-nine demographically matched healthy controls were enrolled. Using fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) in ACC as features, we performed multi-voxel pattern analysis over pretreatment MDD patients vs health control (HC), and over pretreatment MDD patients vs posttreatment MDD patients.\nDiscriminative regions in ACC for MDD impairment and changes after antidepressants were obtained. The intersection set and difference set were calculated to form ACC subregions of recovered, unrecovered and compensative, respectively. The recovered ACC subregion mainly distributed in rostral ACC (80\u00a0%) and the other two subregions had nearly equal distribution over dorsal ACC and rostral ACC. Furthermore, only the compensative subregion had significant changed functional connectivity with cingulo-opercular control network (CON) after antidepressant treatment.\nThe number of subjects was relatively small. The results need to be validated with larger sample sizes and multisite data.\nThis finding suggested that the local function of ACC was partly recovered on regulating emotion after antidepressant by detecting the common subregional targets of depression impairment and antidepressive effect. Besides, changed fALFF in the compensative ACC subregion and its connectivity with CON may partly compensate for the cognition deficits.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The study aimed to determine the relationship between the millisecond timing, measured by visual temporal order threshold (TOT), i.e. a minimum gap between two successive stimuli necessary to judge a before-after relation, and resting-state fMRI functional connectivity (rsFC). We assume that the TOT reflects a relatively stable feature of local internal state networks and is associated with rsFC of the temporal parietal junction (TPJ). Sixty five healthy young adults underwent the visual TOT, fluid intelligence (G", 
    "abstract": "It has been demonstrated that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) has three subregions, involved in behavior, cognition, and emotion. However, the intrinsic connectivity of the ACC subregions in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) is still unclear. In this study, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data was used to detect the functional connectivity (FC) of ACC subregions and the correlation with the disease severity in young and middle-aged patients with MDD.\nA total of 36 young and middle-aged patients with first-episode MDD and 36 healthy controls (HCs) were enrolled in this study. FC was applied to investigate altered connectivity of the ACC subregion in MDD patients compared to HCs. Correlation analysis was then used to assess possible relationship between the neuroimaging findings and clinical symptoms in the patient group.\nCompared to HCs, young and middle-aged patients had significantly decreased FC between the emotional subregion of the ACC and the hippocampus, thalamus, insula, angular gyrus, and posterior cingulate cortex. The FC between the ACC emotional subregion and the insula, the AG, the RPHG was negatively correlated with depression index. The FC between the ACC emotional subregion and the putamen was positively correlated with depression index.\nThe present findings indicate that abnormal ACC subregions-seeded FC may be implicated in the MDD-related abnormalities of emotion regulation and information processing. And there is a correlation between the above FC changes and the clinical symptoms of young and middle-aged MDD patients. This study may provide preliminary evidence for the ACC-related neural mechanism in young and middle-aged MDD patients and enhance the understanding of the pathophysiology of MDD.", 
    "abstract": "Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neuroinflammatory disease that involves structural and functional damage to the brain. It changes the functional connectivity of the brain between and within networks. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) enables us to measure functional correlation and independence between different brain regions. In recent years, statistical methods, including independent component analysis (ICA) and graph-based analysis, have been widely used in fMRI studies. Furthermore, topological properties of the brain have been appeared as significant features of neuroscience studies. Most studies are focused on graph analysis and ICA methods, rather than considering spectral approaches. Here, we developed a new framework to measure brain connectivity (in static and dynamic formats) and incorporate it to study fMRI data from MS patients and healthy controls (HCs). For this purpose, a spectral ICA method is proposed to extract the nodes of the brain graph. Spectral ICA extracts more reliable components and decreases the processing time in calculation of the static brain connectivity. Compared to Infomax ICA, dynamic range and low-frequency to high-frequency power ratio (fALFF) show better results using the proposed ICA. It is also helpful in selection of the states for dynamic connectivity. Furthermore, the dynamic connectivity-based extracted components from spectral ICA are estimated using a mutual information method and based on correlation of sliding time-windowed on selected IC time courses. First-level and second-level connectivity states are calculated using correlations of connectivity strength between graph nodes (spectral ICA components). Finally, static and dynamic connectivity are analyzed based on correlation nodes percolated by an anatomical automatic labeling (AAL) atlas. Despite static and dynamic connectivity results of AAL correlations not showing any significant changes between MS and HC, our results based on spectral ICA in static and dynamic connectivity showed significantly decreased connectivity in MS patients in the anterior cingulate cortex, whereas it was significantly weaker in the core but stronger at the periphery of the posterior cingulate cortex.", 
    "abstract": "Besides the well-documented ophthalmic manifestations, thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO) is believed to be related to emotional and psychological abnormalities. Given the previous neuroimaging evidence, we hypothesized that TAO patients would have altered neurovascular coupling associated with clinical-psychiatric disturbances. This study was to investigate neurovascular coupling changes in TAO by combining resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and arterial spin labeling (ASL) techniques. Amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) was calculated from rs-fMRI, and cerebral blood flow (CBF) was computed from ASL in 37 TAO patients and 21 healthy controls (HCs). Global neurovascular coupling was assessed by across-voxel CBF-ALFF correlation, and regional neurovascular coupling was evaluated by CBF/ALFF ratio. Auxiliary analyses were performed using fractional ALFF (fALFF) and regional homogeneity (ReHo) as rs-fMRI measures. Compared with HCs, TAO patients showed significantly reduced global CBF-ALFF coupling. Moreover, TAO patients exhibited decreased CBF/ALFF ratio in the left lingual gyrus (LG)/fusiform gyrus (FFG), and increased CBF/ALFF ratio in the bilateral precuneus (PCu). In TAOs, CBF/ALFF ratio in the left LG/FFG was positively correlated with visual acuity, while CBF/ALFF ratio in the bilateral PCu was negatively correlated with Montreal Cognitive Assessment score. The auxiliary analyses showed trends of reduced global neurovascular coupling (i.e., CBF-fALFF correlation and CBF-ReHo correlation), as well as significant altered regional neurovascular coupling (i.e., CBF/fALFF ratio and CBF/ReHo ratio) in several brain regions. These findings indicated that TAO patients had altered neurovascular coupling in the visual and higher-order cognitive cortices. The neurovascular decoupling might be a possible neuropathological mechanism of TAO.", 
    "abstract": "Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a heterogeneous syndrome characterized by cognitive impairment on neurocognitive tests but accompanied by relatively intact daily activities. Due to high variation and no objective methods for diagnosing and treating MCI, guidance on neuroimaging is needed. The study has explored the neuroimaging biomarkers using the support vector machine (SVM) method to predict MCI.\nIn total, 53 patients with MCI and 68 healthy controls were involved in scanning resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Neurocognitive testing and Structured Clinical Interview, such as Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) test, Activity of Daily Living (ADL) Scale, Hachinski Ischemic Score (HIS), Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD), were utilized to assess participants' cognitive state. Neuroimaging data were analyzed with the regional homogeneity (ReHo) and SVM methods.\nCompared with healthy comparisons (HCs), ReHo of patients with MCI was decreased in the right caudate. In addition, the SVM classification achieved an overall accuracy of 68.6%, sensitivity of 62.26%, and specificity of 58.82%.\nThe results suggest that abnormal neural activity in the right cerebrum may play a vital role in the pathophysiological process of MCI. Moreover, the ReHo in the right caudate may serve as a neuroimaging biomarker for MCI, which can provide objective guidance on diagnosing and managing MCI in the future.", 
    "abstract": "The locus coeruleus (LC) in the brainstem as the main regulator of brain noradrenaline gains increasing attention because of its involvement in neurologic and psychiatric diseases and its relevance in general to brain function. In this study, we created a structural connectome of the LC nerve fibers based on in vivo MRI tractography to gain an understanding into LC connectivity and its impact on LC-related psychological measures. We combined our structural results with ultra-high field resting-state functional MRI to learn about the relationship between in vivo LC structural and functional connections. Importantly, we reveal that LC brain fibers are strongly associated with psychological measures of anxiety and alertness indicating that LC-noradrenergic connectivity may have an important role on brain function. Lastly, since we analyzed all our data in subject-specific space, we point out the potential of structural LC connectivity to reveal individual characteristics of LC-noradrenergic function on the single-subject level.", 
    "abstract": "Treatment-resistant depression (TRD) may have different physiopathological neuromechanism in different age groups. This study used the amplitude of low frequency fluctuations (ALFF) to initially compare abnormalities in local functional brain activity in younger and older patients with TRD.\nA total of 21 older TRD patients, 19 younger TRD, 19 older healthy controls (HCs), and 19 younger HCs underwent resting-state functional MRI scans, and the images were analyzed using the ALFF and further analyzed for correlation between abnormal brain regions and clinical symptoms in TRD patients of different age groups.\nCompared with the older TRD, the younger TRD group had increased ALFF in the left middle frontal gyrus and decreased ALFF in the left caudate nucleus. Compared with the matched HC group, ALFF was increased in the right middle temporal gyrus and left pallidum in the older TRD group, whereas no significant differences were found in the younger TRD group. In addition, ALFF values in the left middle frontal gyrus in the younger TRD group and in the right middle temporal gyrus in the older TRD were both positively correlated with the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression score.\nDifferent neuropathological mechanisms may exist in TRD patients of different ages, especially in the left middle frontal gyrus and left caudate nucleus. This study is beneficial in providing potential key targets for the clinical management of TRD patients of different ages.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional network connectivity (rsFNC) has shown utility for identifying characteristic functional brain patterns in individuals with psychiatric and mood disorders, providing a promising avenue for biomarker development. However, several factors have precluded widespread clinical adoption of rsFNC diagnostics, namely the lack of standardized approaches for capturing comparable and reproducible imaging markers across individuals, as well as the disagreement on the amount of data required to robustly detect intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs) and diagnostically relevant patterns of rsFNC. Here, we investigate the robustness of (1) subject-specific ICNs standardized to an a priori network template via spatially constrained ICA (scICA), and (2) rsFNC differences between schizophrenia and control groups with respect to the length of the fMRI. Our results suggest clinical rsFMRI scans, when decomposed with scICA, could potentially be shortened to just 2-4 minutes without significant loss of individual rsFNC information or classification performance of longer scan lengths. Clinical Relevance - This work shows diagnostically relevant rsFNC patterns for schizophrenia can be identified from just 2-4 minutes of rsfMRI using an scICA approach. These results can influence future work in neuroimaging biomarker development.", 
    "abstract": "With growing size of resting state fMRI datasets and advances in deep learning methods, there are ever increasing opportunities to leverage progress in deep learning to solve challenging tasks in neuroimaging. In this work, we build upon recent advances in deep metric learning, to learn embeddings of rs-fMRI data, which can then be potentially used for several downstream tasks. We propose an efficient training method for our model and compare our method with other widely used models. Our experimental results indicate that deep metric learning can be used as an additional refinement step to learn representations of fMRI data, that significantly improves performance on downstream modeling tasks.", 
    "abstract": "Longitudinal studies can provide more precise measure of brain development, as they focus on within-subject variability, as opposed to cross-sectional studies. In this study, we track longitudinal changes in resting state fMRI data using spectrum of time-courses generated via group independent component analysis (gICA), in a multi time point dataset containing healthy children 8-18 years old, collected on both eyes open and eyes closed resting state conditions. Clinical Relevance - Tracking normal brain development and identifying biomarkers of healthy brain development are critically important to diagnose mental disorders at early ages. We found increased spectral power in low frequencies and decreased spectral power in high frequencies in children with typical development in both the eyes open and eyes closed conditions though the eyes closed condition showed greater changes with development mostly in the visual networks. Results are also replicated on an independent dataset.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we explore the use of the 4D discrete wavelet transform (DWT) on fMRI data. The data set comes from a study on schizophrenia. The compact support of the wavelet transform means that it keeps phenomenon localized in all 4 dimensions. We examine 16 sub-signals (frequency banded components of the signal) resulting from the 4D DWT, repre-senting the sub-signals as energy fluctuations over time. Next, we correlate these, and examine the variance. We find that grouping the variance data shows a small but clear trend of the control group versus those with a schizophrenia diagnosis. The DWT analyzes a signal into approximations and details, which we expect reflect the similarities and differences between brain activity, respectively. We want to know how the regions of brain activity vary with time, and the high-pass data encodes these changes over time.", 
    "abstract": "The resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) have been used to explore functional abnormality of the brain in MDD patients with suicidal ideation (SI). However, few studies reported the variability and concordance of alterations of rs-fMRI indices in MDD with SI. In this study, we aimed to explore the variability and concordance of alterations of rs-fMRI indices in MDD with SI.\nA sliding window analysis was performed among 36 MDD patients with SI, 66 MDD patients without SI (NSI), and 50 healthy controls (HCs). Furthermore, the correlation between voxel-wise concordance and cognitive function was examined in the SI group.\nThe SI group had a lower dynamics degree centrality (dDC) value than the NSI group in left inferior occipital gyrus, and a lower voxel mirrored homotopic connectivity (dVMHC) value than the NSI group in the right and left inferior occipital gyrus. The mean values of volume wise concordance of HCs group shown higher than SI group and NSI group. SI group revealed decreased voxel-wise concordance in right cerebellum, left fusiform gyrus, left lingual gyrus, right middle temporal gyrus, left postcentral gyrus, and right supplementary motor area compared to NSI group. Moreover, the voxel-wise concordance of left middle occipital gyrus was negatively correlated with verbal learning and memory and working memory in the SI group.\nThis is a cross-sectional analysis, limiting causal inferences.\nThe abnormal voxel-wise concordance of left middle occipital gyrus could be useful in understanding the pathophysiology of MDD patients with SI.", 
    "abstract": "Medication and other therapies for psychiatric disorders show unsatisfying efficacy, in part due to the significant clinical/ biological heterogeneity within each disorder and our over-reliance on categorical clinical diagnoses. Alternatively, dimensional transdiagnostic studies have provided a promising pathway toward realizing personalized medicine and improved treatment outcomes. One factor that may influence response to psychiatric treatments is cognitive function, which is reflected in one's intellectual capacity. Intellectual capacity is also reflected in the organization and structure of intrinsic brain networks. Using a large transdiagnostic cohort (n\u2009=\u20091721), we sought to discover neuroimaging biomarkers by developing a resting-state functional connectome-based prediction model for a key intellectual capacity measure, Full-Scale Intelligence Quotient (FSIQ), across the diagnostic spectrum. Our cross-validated model yielded an excellent prediction accuracy (r\u2009=\u20090.5573, p\u2009<\u20090.001). The robustness and generalizability of our model was further validated on three independent cohorts (n\u2009=\u20092641). We identified key transdiagnostic connectome signatures underlying FSIQ capacity involving the dorsal-attention, frontoparietal and default-mode networks. Meanwhile, diagnosis groups showed disorder-specific biomarker patterns. Our findings advance the neurobiological understanding of cognitive functioning across traditional diagnostic categories and provide a new avenue for neuropathological classification of psychiatric disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Static regional homogeneity (ReHo) based on the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has been used to study intrinsic brain activity (IBA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, few studies have examined dynamic ReHo (dReHo) in AD. In this study, we used rs-fMRI and dReHo to investigate the alterations in dynamic IBA in patients with AD to uncover dynamic imaging markers of AD.\nIn total, 111 patients with AD, 29 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 73 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited for this study ultimately. After the rs-fMRI scan, we calculated the dReHo values using the sliding window method. ANOVA and \nSignificant dReHo variability in the right middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and right posterior cingulate gyrus (PCG) was detected in the three groups through ANOVA. In \nDisrupted dynamic IBA in the DMN might be an important characteristic of AD and could be a potential biomarker for the diagnosis or prognosis of AD.", 
    "abstract": "The study of brain functional connectivity alterations in children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) has been the subject of considerable investigation, but the biological mechanisms underlying these changes remain poorly understood. Here, we aim to investigate the brain alterations in patients with ADHD and Typical Development (TD) children and accurately classify ADHD children from TD controls using the graph-theoretical measures obtained from resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI).\nWe investigated the performances of rs-fMRI data for classifying drug-naive children with ADHD from TD controls. Fifty six drug-naive ADHD children (average age 11.86 \u00b1 2.21 years; 49 male) and 56 age matched TD controls (average age 11.51 \u00b1 1.77 years, 44 male) were included in this study. The graph measures extracted from rs-fMRI functional connectivity were used as features. Extracted network-based features were fed to the RFE feature selection algorithm to select the most discriminating subset of features. We trained and tested Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF), and Gradient Boosting (GB) using Peking center data from ADHD-200 database to classify ADHD and TD children using discriminative features. In addition to the machine learning approach, the statistical analysis was conducted on graph measures to discover the differences in the brain network of patients with ADHD.\nAn accuracy of 78.2% was achieved for classifying drug-naive children with ADHD from TD controls employing the optimal features and the GB classifier. We also performed a hub node analysis and found that the number of hubs in TD controls and ADHD children were 8 and 5, respectively, indicating that children with ADHD have disturbance of critical communication regions in their brain network. The findings of this study provide insight into the neurophysiological mechanisms underlying ADHD.\nPattern recognition and graph measures of the brain networks, based on the rs-fMRI data, can efficiently assist in the classification of ADHD children from TD controls.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has been known as a powerful tool in neuroscience. However, exploring the test-retest reliability of the metrics derived from the rs-fMRI BOLD signal is essential, particularly in the studies of patients with neurological disorders. Here, two factors, namely, the effect of anesthesia and scan length, have been estimated on the reliability of rs-fMRI measurements. A total of nine patients with drug-resistant epilepsy (DRE) requiring interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) were scanned in two states. The first scan was performed in an awake state before surgery on the same patient. The second scan was performed 2 weeks later under general anesthesia necessary for LITT surgery. At each state, two rs-fMRI sessions were obtained that each one lasted 15 min, and the effect of scan length was evaluated. Voxel-wise rs-fMRI metrics, including the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF), functional connectivity (FC), and regional homogeneity (ReHo), were measured. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated to estimate the reliability of the measurements in two states of awake and under anesthesia. Overall, it appeared that the reliability of rs-fMRI metrics improved under anesthesia. From the 15-min data, we found mean ICC values in awake state including 0.81, 0.51, 0.65, and 0.84 for ALFF, fALFF, FC, and ReHo, respectively, as well as 0.80, 0.59, 0.83, and 0.88 for ALFF, fALFF, FC, and ReHo, respectively, under anesthesia. Additionally, our findings revealed that reliability increases as the function of scan length. We showed that the optimized scan length to achieve less variability of rs-fMRI measurements was 3.1-7.5 min shorter in an anesthetized, compared to a wakeful state.", 
    "abstract": "Freezing of gait (FOG) in multiple system atrophy (MSA) is characterized by a higher risk of falls and a reduced quality of life; however, the mechanisms underlying these effects have yet to be identified by neuroimaging. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences in functional network when compared between MSA patients with and without freezing.\nDegree centrality (DC) based on the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging was computed in 65 patients with MSA and 36 healthy controls. Brain regions with statistically different DC values between groups were selected as seed points for a second seed-based functional connectivity (FC) analysis. The relationships between brain activity (DC and FC alterations) and the severity of freezing symptoms were then investigated in the two groups of patients with MSA.\nCompared to MSA patients without FOG symptoms (MSA-nFOG), patients with MSA-FOG showed an increased DC in the left middle temporal gyrus but a reduced DC in the right superior pole temporal gyrus, left anterior cingulum cortex, left thalamus, and right middle frontal gyrus. Furthermore, in patients with MSA-FOG, the DC in the left thalamus was negatively correlated with FOG scores. Using the left thalamus as a seed, secondary seed-based functional connectivity analysis revealed that patients with MSA-FOG commonly showed the left thalamus-based FC abnormalities in regions related to cognition and emotion. In contrast to the patients with MSA-nFOG, patients with MSA-FOG showed an increased FC between the left thalamus and the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG), right inferior parietal lobule (IPL), bilateral cerebellum_8, and left precuneus.\nFreezing of gait is associated with centrality of the impaired thalamus network. Abnormal FC between the thalamus and left MTG, right IPL, bilateral cerebellum_8, and left precuneus was involved in FOG. These results provide new insight into the pathophysiological mechanism of FOG in MSA.", 
    "abstract": "The inferior parietal lobule (IPL) plays important roles in reaching and grasping during hand movements, but how reorganizations of IPL subsystems underlie the paretic hand remains unclear. We aimed to explore whether specific IPL subsystems were disrupted and associated with hand performance after chronic stroke.\nIn this cross-sectional study, we recruited 65 patients who had chronic subcortical strokes and 40 healthy controls from China. Each participant underwent the Fugl-Meyer Assessment of Hand and Wrist and resting-state fMRI at baseline. We mainly explored the group differences in resting-state effective connectivity (EC) patterns for six IPL subregions in each hemisphere, and we correlated these EC patterns with paretic hand performance across the whole stroke group and stroke subgroups. Moreover, we used receiver operating characteristic curve analysis to distinguish the stroke subgroups with partially (PPH) and completely (CPH) paretic hands.\nStroke patients exhibited abnormal EC patterns with ipsilesional PFt and bilateral PGa, and five sensorimotor-parietal/two parietal-temporal subsystems were positively or negatively correlated with hand performance. Compared with CPH patients, PPH patients exhibited abnormal EC patterns with the contralesional PFop. The PPH patients had one motor-parietal subsystem, while the CPH patients had one sensorimotor-parietal and three parietal-occipital subsystems that were associated with hand performance. Notably, the EC strength from the contralesional PFop to the ipsilesional superior frontal gyrus could distinguish patients with PPH from patients with CPH.\nThe IPL subsystems manifest specific functional reorganization and are associated with hand dysfunction following chronic stroke.", 
    "abstract": "Based on resting-state functional MRI (fMRI), we preliminarily explored brain alterations in asymptomatic patients with vulnerable carotid plaques, but carotid stenosis was < 50%.\nA total of 58 asymptomatic patients with vulnerable carotid plaques (stenosis <50%) and 38 healthy controls were recruited. Between-group differences in regional homogeneity (ReHo), degree centrality (DC), and functional connectivity (FC) were analyzed. Correlation analysis was performed between the ReHo or DC values in altered brain regions as well as voxel-wise abnormal FC and scores on neuropsychiatric scales, serum interleukin-6 (IL-6), and C-reactive protein (CRP).\nBoth ReHo and DC values on the left superior occipital gyrus (SOG.L) of the asymptomatic vulnerable carotid plaque group reduced, regardless of plaque location (left, right, or bilateral). Functional connections weakened between the SOG.L and right lingual gyrus (LING.R)/right inferior occipital gyrus (IOG.R), right middle frontal gyrus (MFG.R)/orbital part of superior frontal gyrus (ORBsup.R)/orbital part of middle frontal gyrus (ORBmid.R), left precentral gyrus (PreCG.L)/postcentral gyrus (PoCG.L), left supplementary motor area (SMA.L), right paracentral lobule (PCL.R), left precuneus (PCUN.L), and right postcentral gyrus (PoCG.R)/PCL.R. In ReHo-altered brain regions, ReHo values were positively correlated with Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD) scores, and the setting region of abnormal ReHo as seed points, voxel-wise FC between the SOG.L and PreCG.L was negatively correlated with CRP.\nCerebral alterations of neuronal synchronization, activity, and connectivity properties in the asymptomatic vulnerable carotid plaque group were independent of the laterality of vulnerable carotid plaques. Significant relation between ReHo values on the SOG.L and HAMD indicated that even when there were neither clinical symptoms nor lesions on routine MRI, brain function might have changed already at an early stage of carotid atherosclerosis. Inflammation might play a role in linking vulnerable carotid plaques and changes of resting-state functional connectivity.", 
    "abstract": "Prior reports revealed abnormalities in voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) when analyzing neuroimaging data from patients with various psychiatric conditions, including temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Whether these VHMC changes can be leveraged to aid in the diagnosis of right TLE (rTLE), however, remains to be established. This study was thus developed to examine abnormal VMHC findings associated with rTLE to determine whether these changes can be used to guide rTLE diagnosis.\nThe resultant imaging data of resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) analyses of 59 patients with rTLE and 60 normal control individuals were analyzed using VMHC and support vector machine (SVM) approaches.\nRelative to normal controls, patients with rTLE were found to exhibit decreased VMHC values in the bilateral superior and the middle temporal pole (STP and MTP), the bilateral middle and inferior temporal gyri (MTG and ITG), and the bilateral orbital portion of the inferior frontal gyrus (OrbIFG). These patients further exhibited increases in VMHC values in the bilateral precentral gyrus (PreCG), the postcentral gyrus (PoCG), and the supplemental motor area (SMA). The ROC curve of MTG VMHC values showed a great diagnostic efficacy in the diagnosis of rTLE with AUCs, sensitivity, specificity, and optimum cutoff values of 0.819, 0.831, 0.717, and 0.465. These findings highlight the value of the right middle temporal gyrus (rMTG) when differentiating between rTLE and control individuals, with a corresponding SVM analysis yielding respective accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity values of 70.59% (84/119), 78.33% (47/60), and 69.49% (41/59).\nIn summary, patients with rTLE exhibit various forms of abnormal functional connectivity, and SVM analyses support the potential value of abnormal VMHC values as a neuroimaging biomarker that can aid in the diagnosis of this condition.", 
    "abstract": "To develop a system for preoperative prediction of individual activations of motor and speech areas in patients with brain gliomas using resting state fMRI (rsfMRI), task-based fMRI (tb-fMRI), direct cortical stimulation and machine learning methods.\nThirty-three patients with gliomas (19 females and 14 males aged 19 - 540) underwent DCS-assisted resection of tumor (19 ones with lesion of motor zones and 14 patients with lesions of speech areas). Awake craniotomy was performed in 14 cases. Preoperative mapping was performed according to special MRI protocol (T1, tb-fMRI, rs-fMRI).\nMachine learning system was built on open source data from The Human Connectome Project. MR data of 200 healthy subjects from this database were used for system pre-training. Further, this system was trained on the data of our patients with gliomas.\nIn DCS, we obtained 332 stimulations including 173 with positive response. According to comparison of functional activations between rs-fMRI and tb-fMRI, there were more positive DCS responses predicted by rs-fMRI (132 vs 112). Non-response stimulation sites (negative) prevailed in tb-fMRI activations (69 vs 44).\nThe developed method with machine learning based on resting state fMRI showed greater sensitivity compared to classical task-based fMRI after verification with DCS: 0.72 versus 0.66 (\n\u041d\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0435 \u0434\u0430\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0445 \u0444\u0443\u043d\u043a\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u044b\u0445 \u043c\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0438\u0442\u043d\u043e-\u0440\u0435\u0437\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043d\u044b\u0445 \u0442\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0438\u0445 (\u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422) \u0438\u0441\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0439 \u2014 \u043f\u043e\u043a\u043e\u044f (\u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u043f) \u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u043c\u0443\u043b-\u0437\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0441\u0438\u043c\u043e\u0439 (\u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u0441), \u0430 \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0436\u0435 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043e\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043a\u0430\u0440\u0442\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043c\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0434\u043e\u043c \u043f\u0440\u044f\u043c\u043e\u0439 \u044d\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438\u043c\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u043a\u043e\u0440\u044b (\u042d\u0421\u041a) \u0433\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0437\u0433\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0430\u0442\u044c \u0441 \u0438\u0441\u043f\u043e\u043b\u044c\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435\u043c \u043c\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0432 \u043c\u0430\u0448\u0438\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043e\u0431\u0443\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0435\u043c\u0443 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0439 \u0438\u043d\u0434\u0438\u0432\u0438\u0434\u0443\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0430\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u043c\u043e\u0442\u043e\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0438 \u0440\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0432\u043e\u0439 \u043e\u0431\u043b\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0435\u0439 \u0434\u043b\u044f \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043e\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043f\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0443 \u043f\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u043d\u0442\u043e\u0432 \u0441 \u0433\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043c\u0438 \u0433\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0437\u0433\u0430.\n\u0423\u0434\u0430\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0443\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0438 \u0441 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u043c \u042d\u0421\u041a \u0432\u044b\u043f\u043e\u043b\u043d\u0435\u043d\u043e 33 \u043f\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0430\u043c (19 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0449\u0438\u043d, 14 \u043c\u0443\u0436\u0447\u0438\u043d \u0432 \u0432\u043e\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0435 19\u201454 \u043b\u0435\u0442) \u0441 \u0433\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043c\u0438 \u0431\u043e\u043b\u044c\u0448\u0438\u0445 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u0443\u0448\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0439 (19 \u2014 \u0441 \u043b\u043e\u043a\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u0439 \u0432 \u043c\u043e\u0442\u043e\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u043e\u0431\u043b\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0438, 14 \u2014 \u0432 \u0440\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0432\u043e\u0439). \u041a\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u043e\u0442\u043e\u043c\u0438\u044f \u0441 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0431\u0443\u0436\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u043c \u0432\u044b\u043f\u043e\u043b\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0430 14 \u043f\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0430\u043c. \u0414\u043e\u043e\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0435 \u043a\u0430\u0440\u0442\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043e\u0441\u0443\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043b\u044f\u043b\u043e\u0441\u044c \u043f\u043e \u0440\u0435\u0437\u0443\u043b\u044c\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430\u043c \u041c\u0420\u0422 (3T) \u0438 \u0432\u044b\u043f\u043e\u043b\u043d\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0432\u0441\u0435\u043c \u043f\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0430\u043c \u043f\u043e \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0430\u043d\u043d\u043e\u043c\u0443 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0442\u043e\u043a\u043e\u043b\u0443 (T1, \u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u0441, \u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u043f). \u0414\u043b\u044f \u043f\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0440\u043e\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0441\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0435\u043c\u044b \u0441 \u043c\u0430\u0448\u0438\u043d\u043d\u044b\u043c \u043e\u0431\u0443\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u043c \u0438\u0441\u043f\u043e\u043b\u044c\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u044b \u0434\u0430\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0435 \u043e\u0442\u043a\u0440\u044b\u0442\u044b\u0445 \u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0447\u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0432 Human Connectome Project (HCP). \u0418\u0437 \u044d\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u0430\u0437\u044b \u0434\u0430\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0435 200 \u0437\u0434\u043e\u0440\u043e\u0432\u044b\u0445 \u0438\u0441\u043f\u044b\u0442\u0443\u0435\u043c\u044b\u0445 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0435\u043d\u044b \u0434\u043b\u044f \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043e\u0431\u0443\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0435\u043c\u044b; \u0434\u0430\u043b\u0435\u0435 \u0441\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0435\u043c\u0430 \u00ab\u0434\u043e\u043e\u0431\u0443\u0447\u0430\u043b\u0430\u0441\u044c\u00bb \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0430\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0445 \u043f\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u043d\u0442\u043e\u0432 \u0441 \u0433\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043c\u0438.\n\u041f\u0440\u0438 \u042d\u0421\u041a \u0432\u044b\u043f\u043e\u043b\u043d\u0435\u043d\u044b 332 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u043c\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u043a\u043e\u0440\u043a\u043e\u0432\u044b\u0445 \u0437\u043e\u043d, \u0438\u0437 \u043d\u0438\u0445 173 \u0441 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0436\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044c\u043d\u044b\u043c \u043e\u0442\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u043c. \u041f\u043e \u0440\u0435\u0437\u0443\u043b\u044c\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430\u043c \u0441\u043e\u043f\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0439 \u0437\u043e\u043d \u0430\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u043f \u0441 \u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u0441 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0436\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044c\u043d\u044b\u0445 \u043e\u0442\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0432 \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u042d\u0421\u041a \u043e\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043b\u043e\u0441\u044c \u0431\u043e\u043b\u044c\u0448\u0435 \u0432 \u0437\u043e\u043d\u0430\u0445, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0445 \u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u043f (132 \u043f\u043e \u0441\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044e \u0441 112); \u0442\u043e\u0447\u043a\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u043c\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u0431\u0435\u0437 \u043e\u0442\u0432\u0435\u0442\u0430 (\u043e\u0442\u0440\u0438\u0446\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044c\u043d\u044b\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0447\u043a\u0438) \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043e\u0431\u043b\u0430\u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u0432 \u0437\u043e\u043d\u0430\u0445 \u0430\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u0444\u041c\u0420\u0422\u0441 (69 \u0438 44 \u0441\u043e\u043e\u0442\u0432\u0435\u0442\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u043d\u043e).\n\u0420\u0430\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0430\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043c\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0434 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0435\u0442\u0435\u0432\u044b\u0445 \u0430\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0439 \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u0444\u0443\u043d\u043a\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u043c\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0438\u0442\u043d\u043e-\u0440\u0435\u0437\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0442\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444\u0438\u0438 \u0441\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e\u044f\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u043e\u043a\u043e\u044f \u0441 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u043c \u043c\u0430\u0448\u0438\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043e\u0431\u0443\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043b \u0431\u043e\u043b\u044c\u0448\u0443\u044e \u0447\u0443\u0432\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u044c \u043f\u043e \u0441\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044e \u0441 \u043a\u043b\u0430\u0441\u0441\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0439 \u0444\u0443\u043d\u043a\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u043c\u0443\u043b-\u0437\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0441\u0438\u043c\u043e\u0439 \u043c\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0438\u0442\u043d\u043e-\u0440\u0435\u0437\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0442\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444\u0438\u0435\u0439 \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u0432\u0435\u0440\u0438\u0444\u0438\u043a\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u043c\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0434\u043e\u043c \u044d\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0439 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u043c\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u043a\u043e\u0440\u044b \u0433\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0437\u0433\u0430: \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u0438\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0438\u0444\u0438\u043a\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u0440\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0432\u044b\u0445 \u0437\u043e\u043d 0,72 \u043f\u043e \u0441\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044e \u0441 0,66 (", 
    "abstract": "Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common complication of Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) for male patients and it is considered to be associated with different causes including hyperglicemia-induced vascular endothelial cell damages. However, the possible central neural mechanisms shared by these two diseases remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the changes of brain activity and their relationships with the clinical characteristics in patients with diabetic ED.\nThe data of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging were acquired in 31 T2DM patients with ED (DM-ED) and 31 matched healthy controls (HCs). The whole-brain regional homogeneity (ReHo) values were calculated and compared between groups. In addition, \nThe DM-ED group exhibited increased ReHo values in the right middle frontal gyrus (orbital part) and decreased ReHo values in the left superior frontal gyrus (dorsolateral), paracentral lobule, precuneus and bilateral supplementary motor area when compared with the HCs group. Moreover, significantly negative correlations were found between ReHo values of the left superior frontal gyrus (dorsolateral) and IIEF-5 scores, as well as the level of HbA1c in the DM-ED group.\nThe altered spontaneous brain activity in cognitive-related regions revealed by ReHo values might provide new insights into the neurological pathophysiology underlying DM-ED and serve as potential neuroimaging biomarkers for detecting and evaluating ED in diabetes patients.", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a serious and widespread psychiatric disorder. Previous studies mainly focused on cerebrum functional connectivity, and the sample size was relatively small. However, functional connectivity is undirected. And, there is increasing evidence that the cerebellum is also involved in emotion and cognitive processing and makes outstanding contributions to the symptomology and pathology of depression. Therefore, we used a large sample size of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data to investigate the altered effective connectivity (EC) among the cerebellum and other cerebral cortex in patients with MDD. Here, from the perspective of data-driven analysis, we used two different atlases to divide the whole brain into different regions and analyzed the alterations of EC and EC networks in the MDD group compared with healthy controls group (HCs). The results showed that compared with HCs, there were significantly altered EC in the cerebellum-neocortex and cerebellum-basal ganglia circuits in MDD patients, which implied that the cerebellum may be a potential biomarker of depressive disorders. And, the alterations of EC brain networks in MDD patients may provide new insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of depression.", 
    "abstract": "Interleukin-18 (IL-18) may participate in the development of major depressive disorder, but the specific mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to explore whether IL-18 correlates with areas of the brain associated with depression.\nUsing a case-control design, 68 subjects (34 patients and 34 healthy controls) underwent clinical assessment, blood sampling, and resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). The total Hamilton depression-17 (HAMD-17) score was used to assess depression severity. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to detect IL-18 levels. Rest-state fMRI was conducted to explore spontaneous brain activity.\nThe level of IL-18 was higher in patients with depression in comparison with healthy controls. IL-18 was negatively correlated with degree centrality of the left posterior cingulate gyrus in the depression patient group, but no correlation was found in the healthy control group.\nThis study suggests the involvement of IL-18 in the pathophysiological mechanism for depression and interference with brain activity.", 
    "abstract": "The purposes of this study are to explore (1) whether comorbid depressive symptoms in patients with chronic back pain (CBP) affect the pain matrix. And (2) whether the interaction of depression and CBP exacerbates impaired brain function.\nThirty-two patients with CBP without comorbid depressive symptoms and thirty patients with CBP with comorbid depressive symptoms were recruited. All subjects underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans. The graph theory analysis, mediation analysis, and functional connectivity (FC) analysis were included in this study. All subjects received the detection of clinical depressive symptoms and pain-related manifestations.\nCompared with the CBP group, subjects in the CBP with comorbid depressive symptoms (CBP-D) group had significantly increased FC in the left medial prefrontal cortex and several parietal cortical regions. The results of the graph theory analyses showed that the area under the curve of small-world property (\nOur study found that comorbid depressive symptoms can aggravate the impairment of pain matrix function of CBP, but this impairment cannot directly lead to the increase of pain intensity, which may be because some brain regions of the pain matrix are the common neural basis of depression and CBP.", 
    "abstract": "Changes in the brain with age can provide useful information regarding an individual's chronological age. studies have suggested that functional connectomes identified via resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) could be a powerful feature for predicting an individual's age. We applied connectome-based predictive modeling (CPM) to investigate individual chronological age predictions via resting-state fMRI using open-source datasets. The significant feature for age prediction was confirmed in 168 subjects from the Southwest University Adult Lifespan Dataset. The higher contributing nodes for age production included a positive connection from the left inferior parietal sulcus and a negative connection from the right middle temporal sulcus. On the network scale, the subcortical-cerebellum network was the dominant network for age prediction. The generalizability of CPM, which was constructed using the identified features, was verified by applying this model to independent datasets that were randomly selected from the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange I and the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies 3. CPM via resting-state fMRI is a potential robust predictor for determining an individual's chronological age from changes in the brain.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Many previous intervention studies have used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data to predict the antidepressant response of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD); however, practical constraints have limited many of those attempts to small, single centre studies which may not adequately reflect how these models will generalize when used in clinical practice. Not only does the act of collecting data at multiple sites generally increase sample sizes (a critical point in machine learning development) it also generates a more heterogeneous dataset due to systematic differences in scanners at different sites, and geographical differences in patient populations. As part of the Canadian Biomarker Integration Network in Depression (CAN-BIND-1) study, 144 MDD patients from six sites underwent resting state fMRI prior to starting escitalopram treatment, and again two weeks after the start. Here, we consider ways to use machine learning techniques to produce models that can predict response (measured at eight weeks after initiation), based on various parcellations, functional connectivity (FC) metrics, dimensionality reduction algorithms, and base learners, and also whether to use scans from one or both time points. Models that use only baseline (pre-treatment) or only week 2 (early-response) whole-brain FC features consistently failed to perform significantly better than default models. Utilizing the change in FC between these two time points, however, yielded significant results, with the best performing analytical pipeline achieving 69.6% (SD 10.8) accuracy. These results appear contrary to findings from many smaller single-site studies, which report substantially higher predictive accuracies from models trained on only baseline resting state FC features, suggesting these models may not generalize well beyond data used for development. Further, these results indicate the potential value of collecting data both before and shortly after treatment initiation.", 
    "abstract": "The neurobiological factors associated with the emergence of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adolescence are still unclear. Previous cross-sectional studies have documented aberrant connectivity in resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) networks. However, whether these findings precede MDD onset has not been established. This scoping review mapped key methodological aspects and main findings of longitudinal rs-fMRI studies of MDD in adolescence. Three sets of neuroimaging methods to analyze rs-fMRI data were identified: seed-based analysis, independent component analysis, and network-based approaches. Main findings involved aberrant connectivity within and between the default mode network (DMN), the cognitive control network (CCN), and the salience network (SN). Accordingly, we utilized Menon's (2011) triple-network model for neuropsychiatric disorders to summarize key results. Adolescent MDD was associated with hyperconnectivity within the SN and between DMN and SN, as well as hypoconectivity within the CCN. These findings suggested that dysfunctional connectivity among the three main large-scale brain networks preceded MDD onset. However, there was high heterogeneity in neuroimaging methods and sampling procedures, which may limit comparisons between studies. Future studies should consider some level of harmonization for clinical instruments and neuroimaging methods.", 
    "abstract": "Eigenvector-Centrality (EC) has shown promising results in the field of Psychiatry, with early results also pertaining to ADHD. Parallel efforts have focused on the description of aberrant interhemispheric coordination in ADHD, as measured by Voxel-Mirrored-Homotopic-Connectivity (VMHC), with early evidence of altered Resting-State fMRI. A sample was collected from the ADHD200-NYU initiative: 86 neurotypicals and 89 participants with ADHD between 7 and 18\u00a0years old were included after quality control for motion. After preprocessing, voxel-wise EC and VMHC values between diagnostic groups were compared, and network-level values from 15 functional networks extracted. Age, ADHD severity (Connor's Parent Rating-Scale), IQ (Wechsler-Abbreviated-Scale), and right-hand dominance were correlated with EC/VMHC values in the whole sample and within groups, both at the voxel-wise and network-level. Motion was controlled by censoring time-points with Framewise-Displacement\u2009>\u20090.5\u00a0mm, as well as controlling for group differences in mean Framewise-Displacement values. EC was significantly higher in ADHD compared to neurotypicals in the left inferior Frontal lobe, Lingual gyri, Peri-Calcarine cortex, superior and middle Occipital lobes, right inferior Occipital lobe, right middle Temporal gyrus, Fusiform gyri, bilateral Cuneus, right Precuneus, and Cerebellum (FDR-corrected-p\u2009=\u20090.05). No differences were observed between groups in voxel-wise VMHC. EC was positively correlated with ADHD severity scores at the network level (at p-value\u2009<\u20090.01, Inattentive: Cerebellum rho\u2009=\u20090.273; Hyper/Impulsive: High-Visual Network rho\u2009=\u20090.242, Cerebellum rho\u2009=\u20090.273; Global Index Severity: High-Visual Network rho\u2009=\u20090.241, Cerebellum rho\u2009=\u20090.293). No differences were observed between groups for motion (p\u2009=\u20090.443). While EC was more related to ADHD psychopathology, VMHC was consistently and negatively correlated with age across all networks.", 
    "abstract": "[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2021.687420.].", 
    "abstract": "The neurobiology of the Major depressive disorder (MDD) with anxiety is still unclear. The present study aimed to explore the brain correlates of MDD with and without anxiety in men and women during resting-state fMRI.\nTwo hundred and fifty-four patients with MDD (MDD with anxiety, N\u00a0=\u00a0152) and MDD without anxiety, N\u00a0=\u00a0102) and 228 healthy controls (HCs) participated in this study. We compared the fALFF(fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations) and ReHo(regional homogeneity) of ACC(anterior cingulate cortex) and insula among these three groups. We also compared gender difference between MDD with anxiety and MDD without anxiety.\nWe found that the fALFF values within the ACC and insula were significantly lower in MDD with anxiety compared to without anxiety and HCs. However, we did not find differences in ReHo values among the three groups. In women, we found significant differences in fALFF values between MDD with and without anxiety. These differences were not observed in men.\nIt is possible that MDD with anxiety show less spontaneous BOLD-fMRI signal intensity within the ACC and insula compared to MDD without anxiety, especially in women. The fALFF within the ACC and insula can be a potential biomarker for severe MDD phenotype.", 
    "abstract": "Ictal panic (IP) can be observed occasionally in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Such descriptions can be found in previous studies, but the mechanism is still not clear and often confused with panic attacks in patients with panic disorder (PD). We try to use imaging methods (resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging, rs-fMRI) to study the mechanism of this psychiatric comorbidity in patients with TLE.\nForty right-onset TLE patients were observed, including 28 patients with TLE but without IP and 12 patients with TLEIP along with 30 gender-age matched healthy controls were included. We collected clinical/physiological/neuropsychological and rs-fMRI data. Degree centrality (DC) and functional connectivity (FC) were calculated. For the DC and FC values, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was used to find different areas and \nNo significant differences in gender and age were found among the three groups, and no significant differences in education level, Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA), Hamilton Depressive Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA), and epilepsy duration (years) between the TLEIP and TLE without IP groups. In addition to fear, other symptoms were observed, including nausea, palpitations, rising epigastric sensation, and dyspnea. There was no correlation between the duration of IP and HAMA. Moreover, all IP durations were <2 min. Compared to the HCs and TLE without IP group, the DC value of the TLEIP group in the left middle temporal gyrus (LMTG) was significantly increased. Compared to the HCs, FC could be found between the LMTG and left inferior temporal gyrus (LITG) in the TLEIP group. In addition, there was FC between the LMTG and cerebellum in the TLEIP group. The difference in the magnitude of FC between the TLEIP vs. HC group was greater than the difference between the TLE vs. HC group.\nThis study describes brain abnormalities in patients with TLEIP. These results will help to preliminarily understand the mechanism of ictal panic and abnormal functional connection in patients with TLE, and further explore the neuroimaging mechanism of ictal panic in patients with TLE.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) most recently has proved to open a measureless window on functional neurodevelopment in utero. Fetal brain activation and connectivity maps can be heavily influenced by 1) fetal-specific motion effects on the time-series and 2) the accuracy of time-series spatial normalization to a standardized gestational-week (GW) specific fetal template space.Due to the absence of a standardized and generalizable image processing protocol, the objective of the present work was to implement a validated fetal rs-fMRI preprocessing pipeline (RS-FetMRI) divided into 6 inter-dependent preprocessing modules (i.e., M1 to M6) and designed to work entirely as an extension for Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM).RS-FetMRI pipeline output analyses on rs-fMRI time-series sampled from a cohort of fetuses acquired on both 1.5\u00a0T and 3\u00a0T MRI scanning systems showed increased efficacy of estimation of the degree of movement coupled with an efficient motion censoring procedure, resulting in increased number of motion-uncorrupted volumes and temporal continuity in fetal rs-fMRI time-series data. Moreover, a \"structural-free\" SPM-based spatial normalization procedure granted a high degree of spatial overlap with high reproducibility and a significant improvement in whole-brain and parcellation-specific Temporal Signal-to-Noise Ratio (TSNR) mirrored by functional connectivity analysis.To our knowledge, the RS-FetMRI pipeline is the first semi-automatic and easy-to-use standardized fetal rs-fMRI preprocessing pipeline completely integrated in MATLAB-SPM able to remove entry barriers for new research groups into the field of fetal rs-fMRI, for both research or clinical purposes, and ultimately to make future fetal brain connectivity investigations more suitable for comparison and cross-validation.", 
    "abstract": "Acupuncture of PC6 points has the effects of calming, tranquilizing, regulating qi, and relieving pain and has been clinically found to alleviate anxiety disorders. To explore the mechanism of improvement at the Neiguan point acupuncture in anxiety patients, we used fMRI to observe the changes in brain function in patients with immediate anxiety before and after acupuncture at the Neiguan point.\nThe experiment followed the principle of randomized, single-blind design. Twenty-four anxiety volunteers (14 males and 10 females, 20-35 years old) were divided randomly into two groups: a group of acupuncture at Neiguan and a group of acupuncture at non-acupoint. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was applied to measure brain activity pre- and post-acupuncture. The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) and seed-based functional connectivity (FC) was used to analyze the activity and network of brain regions. Statistical analysis was done using SPSS 21.0 and REST 1.8 software.\nALFF results revealed that post-acupuncture at Neiguan increased the activity of the left parahippocampal gyrus, fusiform gyrus, and right superior temporal gyrus and decreased the activity of the right middle frontal gyrus, right precuneus, and cuneus. Post-acupuncture at non-acupoint led to a significant ALFF increase in the thalamus and middle frontal gyrus. The ALFF in the left middle frontal gyrus was decreased. Functional connectivity in several anterior default mode network (DMN) regions and vermis cerebelli at left parahippocampal/fusiform gyri was increased, and connectivity in bilateral superior temporal gyri was decreased. FC with posterior DMN regions decreased at the right middle frontal gyrus, right precuneus, and cuneus.\nOur study elucidates that acupuncture at Neiguan modulates anxiety by activating or deactivating these brain anxiety-related regions and provides potential explanations for the application of PC6 acupuncture in mental diseases.", 
    "abstract": "The percent amplitude of fluctuation (PerAF) technique was utilized to evaluate the neural functions of specific cerebrum areas in patients with toothache (TA).\nAn aggregation of 18 patients with TA (eight males and 10 females) were included in the study. We also recruited 18 healthy controls (HCs; eight men and 10 women) aligned for sex and age. Resting functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scans were obtained. Then, we utilized the PerAF method and a support vector machine (SVM) to analyze the image data and measure neural abnormalities in related cerebrum areas. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was utilized to appraise the two data sets.\nThe PerAF signals in the right dorsolateral superior frontal gyrus (RDSFG) and the right posterior central gyrus (RPCG) of TA sufferers were lower than HC signals. These results may reveal neural dysfunctions in relevant cerebrum regions. The AUC values of PerAF in the two areas were 0.979 in the RDSFG and 0.979 in the RPCG. The SVM results suggested that PerAF could be utilized to distinguish the TA group from HCs with a sensitivity of 75.00%, a specificity of 66.67%, and an accuracy of 70.83%.\nPatients with TA had marked differences in PerAF values in some regions of the cerebrum. Changes in PerAF values represented distinctions in blood oxygen level dependent semaphore intensity, which reflected the overactivity or inactivation of some cerebrum areas in those suffering from TA. At the same time, we analyzed the PerAF values of TAs with ROC curve, which can be helpful for the diagnosis of TA severity and subsequent treatment. Our results may help to elucidate the pathological mechanism of TA.", 
    "abstract": "Although previous neuroimaging studies have demonstrated emotion- and psychology-associated brain abnormalities in patients with thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO), the changes of brain functional connectivity in TAO were seldom focused. We aimed to investigate interregional and intraregional functional interactions in patients with TAO by using resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) with long- and short-range functional connectivity density (FCD) analysis.\nThirty patients with TAO and 30 well-matched healthy controls (HCs) were recruited in our study. Long- and short-range FCD values were calculated and compared between the two groups. Correlations between long- and short-range FCD values and clinical indicators were analyzed.\nCompared with HCs, patients with showed both increased long- and short-range FCDs in the left middle frontal gyrus (MFG), orbital part of superior frontal gyrus (ORBsup), and dorsolateral part of superior frontal gyrus (SFGdor); meanwhile, both decreased long- and short-range FCDs in bilateral postcentral gyrus (PoCG), left superior parietal gyrus (SPG), and inferior parietal (IPL). In addition, patients with TAO showed increased short-range FCD in the right SFGdor, bilateral medial part of superior frontal gyrus (SFGmed), left orbital part of middle frontal gyrus (ORBmid), and orbital part of inferior frontal gyrus (ORBinf), as well as decreased short-range FCD in the right supplementary motor area (SMA) and the left paracentral lobule (PCL) than HCs. Moreover, the short-range value in the left SFGdor showed a negative correlation with Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score (\nOur findings complemented the functional neural mechanism of TAO, and provided potential neuroimaging markers for assessing the psychiatric, visual, and emotional disturbances in patients with TAO.", 
    "abstract": "Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) is considered as an effective and mainstream therapy for heroin dependence. However, whether long-term MMT would improve the coupling among the three core large-scale brain networks (salience, default mode, and executive control) and its relationship with the craving for heroin is unknown.\nForty-four male heroin-dependent individuals during long-term MMT, 27 male heroin-dependent individuals after short-term detoxification/abstinence (SA), and 26 demographically matched healthy controls (HC) underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. We analyzed the difference in coupling among the salience, default mode, and executive control networks among the three groups and examined how the coupling among these large-scale networks was associated with craving before and after drug-cue exposure.\nCompared with the SA group, the MMT group showed lower craving before and after cue exposure and stronger connectivity between the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (a key node of the salience network) and key regions of the bilateral executive control network, including the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, posterior parietal cortex, and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex. Among the heroin-dependent individuals, the functional connectivity was negatively correlated with the craving before and after heroin-cue exposure.\nOur findings suggest that long-term MMT could increase the coupling between the salience and bilateral executive control networks and decrease craving for heroin. These findings contribute to the understanding of the neural mechanism of MMT, from the perspective of large-scale brain networks.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies have shown the whole-brain global functional connectivity density (gFCD) and gray matter volume (GMV) alterations in patients with degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM). However, no study aimed to investigate the associations between the spatial patterns of GMV and gFCD alterations in patients with DCM.\nStructural data and resting-state functional MRI data of 35 DCM patients and 35 matched healthy controls were collected to assess their gFCD and GMV and investigate gFCD and GMV alterations in patients with DCM and their spatial pattern associations.\nIn our current study, significant gFCD and GMV differences were observed in some regions of the visual system, sensorimotor cortices, and cerebellum between patients with DCM and healthy controls. In our findings, decreased gFCD was found in areas primarily located at the sensorimotor cortices, while increased gFCD was observed primarily within areas located at the visual system and cerebellum. Decreased GMV was seen in the left thalamus, bilateral supplementary motor area (SMA), and left inferior occipital cortices in patients with DCM, while increased GMV was observed in the cerebellum.\nOur findings suggest that structural and functional alterations independently contributed to the neuropathology of DCM. However, longitudinal studies are still needed to further illustrate the associations between structural deficits and functional alterations underlying the onset of brain abnormalities as DCM develops.", 
    "abstract": "Resting state functional MRI (rsfMRI) has been shown to be a promising tool to study intrinsic brain functional connectivity and assess its integrity in cerebral development. In neonates, where functional MRI is limited to very few paradigms, rsfMRI was shown to be a relevant tool to explore regional interactions of brain networks. However, to identify the resting state networks, data needs to be carefully processed to reduce artifacts compromising the interpretation of results. Because of the non-collaborative nature of the neonates, the differences in brain size and the reversed contrast compared to adults due to myelination, neonates can't be processed with the existing adult pipelines, as they are not adapted. Therefore, we developed NeoRS, a rsfMRI pipeline for neonates. The pipeline relies on popular neuroimaging tools (FSL, AFNI, and SPM) and is optimized for the neonatal brain. The main processing steps include image registration to an atlas, skull stripping, tissue segmentation, slice timing and head motion correction and regression of confounds which compromise functional data interpretation. To address the specificity of neonatal brain imaging, particular attention was given to registration including neonatal atlas type and parameters, such as brain size variations, and contrast differences compared to adults. Furthermore, head motion was scrutinized, and motion management optimized, as it is a major issue when processing neonatal rsfMRI data. The pipeline includes quality control using visual assessment checkpoints. To assess the effectiveness of NeoRS processing steps we used the neonatal data from the Baby Connectome Project dataset including a total of 10 neonates. NeoRS was designed to work on both multi-band and single-band acquisitions and is applicable on smaller datasets. NeoRS also includes popular functional connectivity analysis features such as seed-to-seed or seed-to-voxel correlations. Language, default mode, dorsal attention, visual, ventral attention, motor and fronto-parietal networks were evaluated. Topology found the different analyzed networks were in agreement with previously published studies in the neonate. NeoRS is coded in Matlab and allows parallel computing to reduce computational times; it is open-source and available on GitHub (https://github.com/venguix/NeoRS). NeoRS allows robust image processing of the neonatal rsfMRI data that can be readily customized to different datasets.", 
    "abstract": "Modelling and predicting individual differences in task-fMRI activity can have a wide range of applications from basic to clinical neuroscience. It has been shown that models based on resting-state activity can have high predictive accuracy. Here we propose several improvements to such models. Using a sparse ensemble learner, we show that (i) features extracted using Stochastic Probabilistic Functional Modes (sPROFUMO) outperform the previously proposed dual-regression approach, (ii) that the shape and overall intensity of individualised task activations can be modelled separately and explicitly, (iii) training the model on predicting residual differences in brain activity further boosts individualised predictions. These results hold for both surface-based analyses of the Human Connectome Project data as well as volumetric analyses of UK-biobank data. Overall, our model achieves state of the art prediction accuracy on par with the test-retest reliability of task-fMRI scans, suggesting that it has potential to supplement traditional task localisers.", 
    "abstract": "Epileptogenic zone (EZ) localization is a crucial step during diagnostic work up and therapeutic planning in medication refractory epilepsy. In this paper, we present the first deep learning approach to localize the EZ based on resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) data.\nOur network, called DeepEZ, uses a cascade of graph convolutions that emphasize signal propagation along expected anatomical pathways. We also integrate domain-specific information, such as an asymmetry term on the predicted EZ and a learned subject-specific bias to mitigate environmental confounds.\nWe validate DeepEZ on rs-fMRI collected from 14 patients with focal epilepsy at the University of Wisconsin Madison. Using cross validation, we demonstrate that DeepEZ achieves consistently high EZ localization performance (Accuracy: 0.88 \u00b1 0.03; AUC: 0.73 \u00b1 0.03) that far outstripped any of the baseline methods. This performance is notable given the variability in EZ locations and scanner type across the cohort.\nOur results highlight the promise of using DeepEZ as an accurate and noninvasive therapeutic planning tool for medication refractory epilepsy.\nWhile prior work in EZ localization focused on identifying localized aberrant signatures, there is growing evidence that epileptic seizures affect inter-regional connectivity in the brain. DeepEZ allows clinicians to harness this information from noninvasive imaging that can easily be integrated into the existing clinical workflow.", 
    "abstract": "Effective separation of signal from noise (including physiological processes and head motion) is one of the chief challenges for improving the sensitivity and specificity of resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) measurements and has a profound impact when these noise sources vary between populations. Independent component analysis (ICA) is an approach for addressing these challenges. Conventionally, due to the lower amount of temporal than spatial information in rs-fMRI data, spatial ICA (sICA) is the method of choice. However, with recent developments in accelerated fMRI acquisitions, the temporal information is becoming enriched to the point that the temporal ICA (tICA) has become more feasible. This is particularly relevant as physiological processes and motion exhibit very different spatial and temporal characteristics when it comes to rs-fMRI applications, leading us to conduct a comparison of the performance of sICA and tICA in addressing these types of noise. In this study, we embrace the novel practice of using theory (simulations) to guide our interpretation of empirical data. We find empirically that sICA can identify more noise-related signal components than tICA. However, on the merit of functional-connectivity results, we find that while sICA is more adept at reducing whole-brain motion effects, tICA performs better in dealing with physiological effects. These interpretations are corroborated by our simulation results. The overall message of this study is that if ICA denoising is to be used for rs-fMRI, there is merit in considering a hybrid approach in which physiological and motion-related noise are each corrected for using their respective best-suited ICA approach.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with comitant exotropia (CE) would usually develop compromised binocular vision and impaired stereoscopic depth perception, which could result in a profound decrease in quality of life. Although the deviated optic axis could be corrected surgically, the impaired stereovision and sensory eye balance may sometimes remain remnant. This study was to investigate the brain functional alterations in patients with CE before and after surgery, using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF). Thirty-five patients with CE were recruited to undergo a preoperative fMRI scan, as well as 24 healthy controls (HCs). Twenty-four of the patients were available for rescanned fMRI one month after surgery. The ALFF method was used to evaluate the group differences of spontaneous brain activity. The correlations between ALFF values and clinical variables were analyzed in the patient group. Preoperatively, compared with HCs, 35 patients with CE showed significantly decreased ALFF values in one cluster involving bilateral calcarine sulcus, lingual gyrus and cuneus. The ALFF values in the above cluster were negatively correlated with disease duration (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.379, P\u00a0=\u00a00.033). One month after surgery, 24 patients with available rescanned fMRI demonstrated increased ALFF values in one cluster located in bilateral cuneus, calcarine sulcus and lingual gyrus relative to the preoperative collection, while still reduced ALFF values in the cluster involving left calcarine sulcus and lingual gyrus compared with HCs. Our study revealed the functional changes of patients with CE in visual-associated brain areas before and after surgery. The findings may provide a new perspective for understanding the underlying pathological mechanisms of CE.", 
    "abstract": "Identifying individuals with early mild cognitive impairment (EMCI) can be an effective strategy for early diagnosis and delay the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Many approaches have been devised to discriminate those with EMCI from healthy control (HC) individuals. Selection of the most effective parameters has been one of the challenging aspects of these approaches. In this study we suggest an optimization method based on five evolutionary algorithms that can be used in optimization of neuroimaging data with a large number of parameters. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) measures, which measure functional connectivity, have been shown to be useful in prediction of cognitive decline. Analysis of functional connectivity data using graph measures is a common practice that results in a great number of parameters. Using graph measures we calculated 1155 parameters from the functional connectivity data of HC (n = 72) and EMCI (n = 68) extracted from the publicly available database of the Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative database (ADNI). These parameters were fed into the evolutionary algorithms to select a subset of parameters for classification of the data into two categories of EMCI and HC using a two-layer artificial neural network. All algorithms achieved classification accuracy of 94.55%, which is extremely high considering single-modality input and low number of data participants. These results highlight potential application of rs-fMRI and efficiency of such optimization methods in classification of images into HC and EMCI. This is of particular importance considering that MRI images of EMCI individuals cannot be easily identified by experts.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of the present study was to examine interhemispheric functional connectivity (FC) and topological organization within the default-mode network (DMN) in children with generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS).\nResting-state functional MRI was collected in 24 children with GTCS and 34 age-matched typically developing children (TDC). Between-group differences in interhemispheric FC were examined by an automated voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) method. The topological properties within the DMN were also analyzed using graph theoretical approaches. Consistent results were detected and the VMHC values were extracted as features in machine learning for subject classification.\nChildren with GTCS showed a significant decrease in VMHC in the DMN, including the hippocampal formation (HF), lateral temporal cortex (LTC), and angular and middle frontal gyrus. Although the patients exhibited efficient small-world properties of the DMN similar to the TDC, significant changes in regional topological organization were found in the patients, involving the areas of the bilateral temporal parietal junction, bilateral LTC, left temporal pole, and HF. Within the DMN, disrupted interhemispheric FC was found between the bilateral HF and LTC, which was consistent with the VMHC results. The VMHC values in bilateral HF and LTC were significantly correlated with clinical information in patients. Support vector machine analysis using average VMHC information in the bilateral HF and LTC as features achieved a correct classification rate of 89.34% for the classification.\nThese results indicate that decreased homotopic coordination in the DMN can be used as an effective biomarker to reflect seizure effects and to distinguish children with GTCSs from TDC.", 
    "abstract": "Many studies have indicated that an entropy model can capture the dynamic characteristics of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rfMRI) signals. However, there are problems of subjectivity and lack of uniform standards in the selection of model parameters relying on experience when using the entropy model to analyze rfMRI. To address this issue, an optimized multiscale entropy (MSE) model was proposed to confirm the parameters objectively. All healthy elderly volunteers were divided into two groups, namely, excellent and poor, by the scores estimated through traditional scale tests before the rfMRI scan. The parameters of the MSE model were optimized with the help of sensitivity parameters such as receiver operating characteristic (ROC) and area under the ROC curve (AUC) in a comparison study between the two groups. The brain regions with significant differences in entropy values were considered biomarkers. Their entropy values were regarded as feature vectors to use as input for the probabilistic neural network in the classification of cognitive scores. Classification accuracy of 80.05% was obtained using machine learning. These results show that the optimized MSE model can accurately select the brain regions sensitive to cognitive performance and objectively select fixed parameters for MSE. This work was expected to provide the basis for entropy to test the cognitive scores of the healthy elderly.", 
    "abstract": "Chemogenetic techniques, such as designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADDs), enable transient, reversible, and minimally invasive manipulation of neural activity ", 
    "abstract": "Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurological disorder affecting the central nervous system and features extensive functional brain changes that are poorly understood but relate strongly to clinical impairments. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a non-invasive, powerful technique able to map activity of brain regions and to assess how such regions interact for an efficient brain network. FMRI has been widely applied to study functional brain changes in MS, allowing to investigate functional plasticity consequent to disease-related structural injury. The first studies in MS using active fMRI tasks mainly aimed to study such plastic changes by identifying abnormal activity in salient brain regions (or systems) involved by the task. In later studies the focus shifted towards resting state (RS) functional connectivity (FC) studies, which aimed to map large-scale functional networks of the brain and to establish how MS pathology impairs functional integration, eventually leading to the hypothesized network collapse as patients clinically progress. This review provides a summary of the main findings from studies using task-based and RS fMRI and illustrates how functional brain alterations relate to clinical disability and cognitive deficits in this condition. We also give an overview of longitudinal studies that used task-based and RS fMRI to monitor disease evolution and effects of motor and cognitive rehabilitation. In addition, we discuss the results of studies using newer technologies involving time-varying FC to investigate abnormal dynamism and flexibility of network configurations in MS. Finally, we show some preliminary results from two recent topics (i.e., multimodal MRI analysis and artificial intelligence) that are receiving increasing attention. Together, these functional studies could provide new (conceptual) insights into disease stage-specific mechanisms underlying progression in MS, with recommendations for future research.", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the pathogenesis of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is essential for its diagnosis and treatment. The study aimed to explore regional homogeneity (ReHo) and changes in effective connectivity (EC) between brain regions in TLE patients, hoping to discover potential abnormalities in certain brain regions in TLE patients.\nResting-state functional magnetic resonance data were collected from 23 TLE patients and 32 normal controls (NC). ReHo was used as a feature of multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) to explore the ability of its alterations in identifying TLE. Based on the results of the MVPA, certain brain regions were selected as seed points to further explore alterations in EC between brain regions using Granger causality analysis.\nMVPA results showed that the classification accuracy for the TLE and NC groups was 87.27%, and the right posterior cerebellum lobe, right lingual gyrus (LING_R), right cuneus (CUN_R), and left superior temporal gyrus (STG_L) provided significant contributions. Moreover, the EC from STG_L to right fusiform gyrus (FFG_R) and LING_R and the EC from CUN_R to the right occipital superior gyrus (SOG_R) and right occipital middle gyrus (MOG_R) were altered compared to the NC group.\nThe MVPA results indicated that ReHo abnormalities in brain regions may be an important feature in the identification of TLE. The enhanced EC from STG_L to FFG_R and LING_R indicates a shift in language processing to the right hemisphere, and the weakened EC from SOG_R and MOG_R to CUN_R may reveal an underlying mechanism of TLE.", 
    "abstract": "Neuroimaging studies have reported abnormalities in the examination of functional connectivity in late-life depression (LLD) in the default mode network (DMN). The present study aims to study resting-state functional connectivity within the DMN in people diagnosed with late-life major depressive disorder (MDD) compared to healthy controls (HCs). Moreover, we would like to differentiate these same connectivity patterns between participants with high vs. low anxiety levels.\nThe sample comprised 56 participants between the ages of 60 and 75; 27 of them were patients with a diagnosis of MDD. Patients were further divided into two samples according to anxiety level: the four people with the highest anxiety level and the five with the lowest anxiety level. Clinical aspects were measured using psychological questionnaires. Each participant underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (\nThere was a greater correlation between pairs of ROIs in the control group than in patients with LLD, being this effect preferentially observed in patients with higher anxiety levels.\nThere are differences in functional connectivity within the DMN depending on the level of psychopathology. This can be reflected in these correlations and in the number of clusters and how the brain lateralizes (clustering).", 
    "abstract": "Individuals with high test anxiety (HTA) have deficits in attentional control and in stress responses when faced with tests. However, little is known about the underlying neural mechanism. Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is involved in both attention and emotion networks, therefore this study examined the neural functional dysregulation in test anxiety from the perspective of functional connectivity (FC) using bilateral ACC as the regions of interest.\nFifty-one participants were divided into HTA (n\u00a0=\u00a023) and low test anxiety (LTA, n\u00a0=\u00a028) group according to their Test Anxiety Scale (TAS) scores. Brain imaging data in resting, preparing, and recovering phases of a modified social evaluative threat task were collected, and emotional changes were assessed.\nCompared with the LTA group, the HTA group exhibited significantly lower FCs between the ACC and superior frontal gyrus (SFG) in all 3 phases, significantly lower FCs between the ACC and inferior parietal gyrus (IPG), and significantly higher FCs between the ACC superior temporal gyrus (STG) in the preparing phase. Moreover, in the HTA group, the resting state IPG-ACC FC was associated with their TAS score, the preparing state STG-ACC FC was associated with the increased anxiety.\nIndividuals with HTA have general prefrontal control deficits. When facing a test, they tend to recruit more resources to deal with high emotional interference. The dysregulated control of the ACC by the frontal-parietal network may underlie the pathophysiology of test anxiety.", 
    "abstract": "The goal of this study was to determine resting state fMRI (rs-fMRI) effective connectivity (RSEC) capacity, agnostic of epileptogenic events, in distinguishing seizure onset zones (SOZ) from propagation zones (pZ). Consecutive patients (2.1-18.2\u00a0years old), with epilepsy and hypothalamic hamartoma, pre-operative rs-fMRI-directed surgery, post-operative imaging, and Engel class I outcomes were collected. Cross-spectral dynamic causal modelling (DCM) was used to estimate RSEC between the ablated rs-fMRI-SOZ to its region of highest connectivity outside the HH, defined as the propagation zone (pZ). Pre-operatively, RSEC from the SOZ and PZ was expected to be positive (excitatory), and pZ to SOZ negative (inhibitory), and post-operatively to be either diminished or non-existent. Sensitivity, accuracy, positive predictive value were determined for node-to-node connections. A Parametric Empirical Bayes (PEB) group analysis on pre-operative data was performed to identify group effects and effects of Engel class outcome and age. Pre-operative RSEC strength was also evaluated for correlation with percent seizure frequency improvement, sex, and region of interest size. Of the SOZ's RSEC, only 3.6% had no connection of significance to the pZ when patient models were individually reduced. Among remaining, 96% were in expected (excitatory signal found from SOZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0pZ and inhibitory signal found from pZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0SOZ) versus 3.6% reversed polarities. Both pre-operative polarity signals were equivalently as expected, with one false signal direction out of 26 each (3.7% total). Sensitivity of 95%, specificity 73%, accuracy of 88%, negative predictive value 88%, and positive predictive value of 88% in identifying and differentiating the SOZ and pZ. Groupwise PEB analysis confirmed SOZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0pZ EC was excitatory, and pZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0SOZ EC was inhibitory. Patients with better outcomes (Engel Ia vs. Ib) showed stronger inhibitory signal (pZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0SOZ). Age was negatively associated with absolute RSEC bidirectionally but had no relationship with Directionality SOZ identification performance. In an additional hierarchical PEB analysis identifying changes from pre-to-post surgery, SOZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0pZ modulation became less excitatory and pZ\u00a0\u2192\u00a0SOZ modulation became less inhibitory. This study demonstrates the accuracy of Directionality to identify the origin of excitatory and inhibitory signal between the surgically confirmed SOZ and the region of hypothesized propagation zone in children with DRE due to a HH. Thus, this method validation study in a homogenous DRE population may have potential in narrowing the SOZ-candidates for epileptogenicity in other DRE populations and utility in other neurological disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Recent neuroimaging studies have revealed important aspects of the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of migraine suggesting abnormal brain energy metabolism and altered functional connectivity. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) studies investigated migraine patients in the interictal or ictal state. This first-of-its-kind study aimed to investigate the whole migraine cycle using 1H-MRS and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). A migraine patient underwent 1H-MRS and resting-state fMRI for 21 consecutive days, regardless of whether he was in an interictal or ictal state. Metabolite ratios were assessed and compared to the intrinsic connectivity of subcortical brain areas. Probable migraine phase-dependent changes in N-acetyl aspartate (NAA)/total creatine (tCr) and choline (Cho)/tCr levels are found in the left occipital lobe and left basal ganglia. NAA reflects neuronal integrity and Cho cellular membrane turnover. Such abnormalities may increase the susceptibility to excitatory migraine triggers. Functional connectivity between the right hippocampus and right or left pallidum was strongly correlated to the NAA/Cho ratio in the right thalamus, suggesting neurochemical modulation of these brain areas through thalamic connections. To draw statistically significant conclusions a larger cohort is needed.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Individuals with alcohol use disorder (AUD) may manifest an array of neural and behavioral abnormalities, including altered brain networks, impaired neurocognitive functioning, and heightened impulsivity. Using multidomain measures, the current study aimed to identify specific features that can differentiate individuals with AUD from healthy controls (CTL), utilizing a random forests (RF) classification model. Features included fMRI-based resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) across the reward network, neuropsychological task performance, and behavioral impulsivity scores, collected from thirty abstinent adult males with prior history of AUD and thirty CTL individuals without a history of AUD. It was found that the RF model achieved a classification accuracy of 86.67% (AUC = 93%) and identified key features of FC and impulsivity that significantly contributed to classifying AUD from CTL individuals. Impulsivity scores were the topmost predictors, followed by twelve rsFC features involving seventeen key reward regions in the brain, such as the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens, anterior insula, anterior cingulate cortex, and other cortical and subcortical structures. Individuals with AUD manifested significant differences in impulsivity and alterations in functional connectivity relative to controls. Specifically, AUD showed heightened impulsivity and hypoconnectivity in nine connections across 13 regions and hyperconnectivity in three connections involving six regions. Relative to controls, visuo-spatial short-term working memory was also found to be impaired in AUD. In conclusion, specific multidomain features of brain connectivity, impulsivity, and neuropsychological performance can be used in a machine learning framework to effectively classify AUD individuals from healthy controls.", 
    "abstract": "The data burden for resting-state fMRI analysis rises with increasing resolutions available at ultrahigh fields. Therefore, a fundamental preprocessing step in brain network analysis is to reduce the data, usually by performing some kind of data parcellation. Most functional parcellations based on rsfMRI connectivity are synthesized from the dense connectome. In contrast, most network analyses begin by reducing each parcel to a single exemplar time series. This disconnect between parcel formation and usage assumes that parcel exemplars adequately represent their member voxels, which is not always the case for commonly used parcellations.\nWe propose to parcellate the brain based on parcel cohesion, a measure of similarity between a parcel's exemplar and its member voxels.\u00a0A spatially constrained agglomerative hierarchical framework is used to synthesize parcels based on a minimum cohesion threshold, rather than a predetermined number of parcels.\nCohesive parcellation generally results in more parcels than existing approaches.\u00a0The number of parcels scales with the amount of smoothing in preprocessing, yet retains adequate information to extract common intrinsic functional networks.\nCohesive parcellation performs better than several widely used anatomical, functional, and data-driven parcellations on the basis of parcel cohesion and comparably using several traditional measures of cluster validity.\nCohesive parcellation ensures that the way parcels are synthesized directly corresponds to the way they are used in subsequent analyses.\u00a0The resulting parcels are straightforward to interpret and optimal for downstream analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Mental disorders, especially schizophrenia, still pose a great challenge for diagnosis in early stages. Recently, computer-aided diagnosis techniques based on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (Rs-fMRI) have been developed to tackle this challenge. In this work, we investigate different decision-level and feature-level fusion schemes for discriminating between schizophrenic and normal subjects. Four types of fMRI features are investigated, namely the regional homogeneity, voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity, fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations and amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations. Data denoising and preprocessing were first applied, followed by the feature extraction module. Four different feature selection algorithms were applied, and the best discriminative features were selected using the algorithm of feature selection via concave minimization (FSV). Support vector machine classifiers were trained and tested on the COBRE dataset formed of 70 schizophrenic subjects and 70 healthy subjects. The decision-level fusion method outperformed the single-feature-type approaches and achieved a 97.85% accuracy, a 98.33% sensitivity, a 96.83% specificity. Moreover, feature-fusion scheme resulted in a 98.57% accuracy, a 99.71% sensitivity, a 97.66% specificity, and an area under the ROC curve of 0.9984. In general, decision-level and feature-level fusion schemes boosted the performance of schizophrenia detectors based on fMRI features.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) studies indicated that the repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) exerts antidepression effect through the functional connectivity (FC) of the DLPFC with the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC), pregneual ACC (pgACC), or nucleus accumbens (NAc). It is proposed that the FC-guided individualized precise stimulation on the DLPFC would be more effective. The current study systematically investigated the reliability of the RS-fMRI FC location as well as the FC strength with multiple potential factors. We aimed to provide a stable stimulation target for future FC-guided TMS therapy for affective related disorders. Twenty-one subjects under RS-fMRI conditions with the first two times (V1, V2) scanned on a GE 3\u00a0T scanner and the third visit (V3) on a Siemens 3\u00a0T scanner. Then the FC strength and location reliability were assessed by using intra-class correlation (ICC) and intra-individual distance, respectively. The factors included deep seed ROIs (midline (mid-) sgACC, left pgACC, mid-pgACC, and left NAc), eyes closed (EC) vs eyes open (EO), frequency bands, FC algorithm (Pearson vs Spearman), scanning length (half a session vs whole session), and location method (FC peak vs center of gravity (COG)). The reliability of the voxel-wise FC strength was low to moderate. The intra-individual distances of the COG were 3.8-7.3\u00a0mm across all factors, much smaller than that of FC peak (approximately 30\u00a0mm). The COG of seed-based FC might be a potential rTMS stimulation target. Anyway, all potential stimulation targets should be tested in future rTMS treatment studies.", 
    "abstract": "Examining the differences in the Functional Connectivity (FC) network while using Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) between two groups can expand the understanding of neural processes and help diagnose and prevent neurological progression disorders. The present study evaluated the Modafinil effect on the FC of brain Regions of Interest (ROI) among healthy young individuals between the Modafinil and placebo groups.\nThe data used in this study were downloaded from the open fMRI site and analyzed after preprocessing. Data included brain scan images of 26 healthy young men with no history of neurological disorders. These people are divided into two groups of drugs and a placebo. The drug group was given 100 mg of Modafinil, and the placebo group was assigned the same dose. Data were analyzed using a longitudinal variance component model.\nAfter taking the drug and placebo by the two groups, the study of the difference between FC in the drug and placebo group and the baseline effect showed a statistically significant difference in one pair of ROIs. Also, in examining the difference between FC in the drug and placebo groups of the longitudinal trend, there was a statistically significant difference between 5 pairs of ROIs.\nAfter taking Modafinil and placebo, it was observed that FC in most areas in the drug group increased compared to the placebo group, indicating Modafinil has cognitive enhancement properties and has a role in visual, auditory, memory learning, and self-awareness functions and enhances these functions.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "There are few studies investigating the short-term effects of Virtual Reality based Exergaming (EG) on motor and cognition simultaneously and pursue the brain functional activity changes after these interventions in patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD). The purpose of this study was to investigate the synergistic therapeutic effects of Virtual Reality based EG on motor and cognitive symptoms in PD and its possible effects on neuroplasticity. Eligible patients with the diagnosis of PD were randomly assigned to one of the two study groups: (1) an experimental EG group, (2) an active control Exercise Therapy (ET) group. All patients participated in a 4-week exercise program consisting of 12 treatment sessions. Every session lasted 60\u00a0min. Participants underwent a motor evaluation, extensive neuropsychological assessment battery and rs-fMRI before and after the interventions. Thirty patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria and were randomly assigned to the EG and ET groups. After the dropouts, 23 patients completed the assessments and interventions (11 in EG, 13 in ET). Within group analysis showed significant improvements in both groups. Between group comparisons considering the interaction of group\u2009\u00d7\u2009time effect, showed superiority of EG in terms of general cognition, delayed visual recall memory and Boston Naming Test. These results were consistent in the within-group and between-group analysis. Finally, rs-fMRI analysis showed increased activity in the precuneus region in the time\u2009\u00d7\u2009group interaction in the favor of EG group. EG can be an effective alternative in terms of motor and cognitive outcomes in patients with PD. Compared to ET, EG may affect brain functional connectivity and can have beneficial effects on patients' cognitive functions and motor symptoms. Whenever possible, using EG and ET in combination, may have the better effects on patients daily living and patients can benefit from the advantages of both interventions.", 
    "abstract": "The main classification systems of sleep disorders are based on the subjective self-reported criteria. Objective measures are essential to characterize the nocturnal sleep disturbance, identify daytime impairment, and determine the course of these symptoms. The aim of this study was to establish a resting-state fMRI-based support vector machine (SVM) classifier to diagnose insomnia disorder.\nWe enrolled 20 patients with insomnia disorder and 21 healthy controls, and obtained their simultaneous polysomnographic electroencephalography and functional magnetic resonance imaging (EEG-fMRI) recordings. The SVM classifiers were trained to capture insomnia. Classifier performance was quantified by a 5-fold cross validation and on independent test dataset.\nThe fMRI-based SVM classifier was able to diagnose insomnia with an accuracy of 89.3% (sensitivity of 90.9%, specificity of 87.7%). The robustness of SVM classifier was encouraging.\nWe established an encouraging resting-state fMRI-based SVM classifier to automatically diagnose insomnia disorder. As an objective measure for assessing insomnia disorder, it would be of additional value to the current self-reported subjective criteria.", 
    "abstract": "The management of eating behavior in bulimia nervosa (BN) patients is a complex process, and BN involves activity in multiple brain regions that integrate internal and external functional information. This functional information integration occurs in brain regions involved in reward, cognition, attention, memory, emotion, smell, taste, vision and so on. Although it has been reported that resting-state brain activity in BN patients is different from that of healthy controls, the neural mechanisms remain unclear and need to be further explored. The fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) analyses are an important data-driven method that can measure the relative contribution of low-frequency fluctuations within a specific frequency band to the whole detectable frequency range. The fALFF is well suited to reveal the strength of interregional cooperation at the single-voxel level to investigate local neuronal activity power. FC is a brain network analysis method based on the level of correlated dynamics between time series, which establishes the connection between two spatial regions of interest (ROIs) with the assistance of linear temporal correlation. Based on the psychological characteristics of patients with BN and the abnormal brain functional activities revealed by previous neuroimaging studies, in this study, we investigated alterations in regional neural activity by applying fALFF analysis and whole-brain functional connectivity (FC) in patients with BN in the resting state and to explore correlations between brain activities and eating behavior. We found that the left insula and bilateral inferior parietal lobule (IPL), as key nodes in the reorganized resting-state neural network, had altered FC with other brain regions associated with reward, emotion, cognition, memory, smell/taste, and vision-related functional processing, which may have influenced restrained eating behavior. These results could provide a further theoretical basis and potential effective targets for neuropsychological treatment in patients with BN.", 
    "abstract": "The effects and possible mechanisms of cerebellar high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on swallowing-related neural networks were studied using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI).\nA total of 23 healthy volunteers were recruited, and 19 healthy volunteers were finally included for the statistical analysis. Before stimulation, the cerebellar hemisphere dominant for swallowing was determined by the single-pulse TMS. The cerebellar representation of the suprahyoid muscles of this hemisphere was selected as the target for stimulation with 10 Hz rTMS, 100% resting motor threshold (rMT), and 250 pulses, with every 1 s of stimulation followed by an interval of 9 s. The motor evoked potential (MEP) amplitude of the suprahyoid muscles in the bilateral cerebral cortex was measured before and after stimulation to evaluate the cortical excitability. Forty-eight hours after elution, rTMS was reapplied on the dominant cerebellar representation of the suprahyoid muscles with the same stimulation parameters. Rs-fMRI was performed before and after stimulation to observe the changes in amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and regional homology (ReHo) at 0.01-0.08 Hz, 0.01-0.027 Hz, and 0.027-0.073 Hz.\nAfter cerebellar high-frequency rTMS, MEP recorded from swallowing-related bilateral cerebral cortex was increased. The results of rs-fMRI showed that at 0.01-0.08 Hz, ALFF was increased at the pons, right cerebellum, and medulla and decreased at the left temporal lobe, and ReHo was decreased at the left insular lobe, right temporal lobe, and corpus callosum. At 0.01-0.027 Hz, ALFF was decreased at the left temporal lobe, and ReHo was decreased at the right temporal lobe, left putamen, and left supplementary motor area.\nRepetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation of the swallowing cortex in the dominant cerebellar hemisphere increased the bilateral cerebral swallowing cortex excitability and enhanced pontine, bulbar, and cerebellar spontaneous neural activity, suggesting that unilateral high-frequency stimulation of the cerebellum can excite both brainstem and cortical swallowing centers. These findings all provide favorable support for the application of cerebellar rTMS in the clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is a common anxiety disorder in childhood and adolescence. Studies on SAD in adults have reported both structural and functional aberrancies of the brain at the group level. However, evidence has shown differences in anxiety-related brain abnormalities between adolescents and adults. Since children and adolescents can afford limited scan time, optimizing the scan tasks is essential for SAD research in children and adolescents. Thus, we need to address whether brain structure, resting-state fMRI, and naturalistic imaging enable individualized identification of SAD in children and adolescents, which measurement is more effective, and whether pooling multi-modal features can improve the identification of SAD. We comprehensively addressed these questions by building machine learning models based on parcel-wise brain features. We found that naturalistic fMRI yielded higher classification accuracy (69.17%) than the other modalities and the classification performance showed dependence on the contents of the movie. The classification models also identified contributing brain regions, some of which exhibited correlations with the symptoms scores of SAD. However, pooling brain features from the three modalities did not help enhance the classification accuracy. These results support the application of carefully designed naturalistic imaging in recognizing children and adolescents at risk of SAD.", 
    "abstract": "The exclusion of high-motion participants can reduce the impact of motion in functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data. However, the exclusion of high-motion participants may change the distribution of clinically relevant variables in the study sample, and the resulting sample may not be representative of the population. Our goals are two-fold: 1) to document the biases introduced by common motion exclusion practices in functional connectivity research and 2) to introduce a framework to address these biases by treating excluded scans as a missing data problem. We use a study of autism spectrum disorder in children without an intellectual disability to illustrate the problem and the potential solution. We aggregated data from 545 children (8-13 years old) who participated in resting-state fMRI studies at Kennedy Krieger Institute (173 autistic and 372 typically developing) between 2007 and 2020. We found that autistic children were more likely to be excluded than typically developing children, with 28.5% and 16.1% of autistic and typically developing children excluded, respectively, using a lenient criterion and 81.0% and 60.1% with a stricter criterion. The resulting sample of autistic children with usable data tended to be older, have milder social deficits, better motor control, and higher intellectual ability than the original sample. These measures were also related to functional connectivity strength among children with usable data. This suggests that the generalizability of previous studies reporting na\u00efve analyses (i.e., based only on participants with usable data) may be limited by the selection of older children with less severe clinical profiles because these children are better able to remain still during an rs-fMRI scan. We adapt doubly robust targeted minimum loss based estimation with an ensemble of machine learning algorithms to address these data losses and the resulting biases. The proposed approach selects more edges that differ in functional connectivity between autistic and typically developing children than the na\u00efve approach, supporting this as a promising solution to improve the study of heterogeneous populations in which motion is common.", 
    "doi": "10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119296\n10.3389/fnsys.2011.00002\n10.1176/appi.books.9780890425596\n10.1002/MPR.329\n10.1111/j.1541-0420.2005.00377.x\n10.1214/15-AOS1337.full\n10.1214/15-AOS1337.short\n10.1214/15-AOS1337\n10.1093/biomet/asx053\n10.1080/01621459.2019.1668794\n10.1038/s41593-020-00726-z\n10.1002/mrm.1910340409\n10.1101/2022.01.13.22269266.2022.01.13.22269266\n10.1101/2021.09.03.458920v1\n10.1101/2021.09.03.458920v1.abstract\n10.1101/2021.09.03.458920\n10.1152/jn.00339.2011\n10.1002/hbm.23737\n10.1016/j.dcn.2018.03.001\n10.1145/2939672.2939785\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.03.020\n10.1001/archpsyc.60.5.524\n10.1080/09297049.2020.1847265\n10.1080/09297049.2020.1847265/SUPPL_FILE/NCNY_A_1847265_SM4135.PDF\n10.1002/aur.1494\n10.1002/aur.1494\n10.1002/aur.1494\n10.1002/AUR.1494\n10.1038/491S20a\n10.1016/j.biopsych.2010.10.029\n10.1038/sdata.2017.10\n10.1038/mp.2013.78\n10.1073/PNAS.2024448118\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2017.08.025\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2021.118388\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.05.007\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2021.117963\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2017.11.024\n10.18637/JSS.V033.I01\n10.1093/AJE/KWX246\n10.1186/s13229-018-0248-y\n10.1186/s13229-018-0248-y\n10.1186/S13229-018-0248-Y/FIGURES/6\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.01.023\n10.1214/ss/1009211805\n10.1093/BIOINFORMATICS/BTU393\n10.1002/aur.1494\n10.1002/aur.1494\n10.1002/aur.1494\n10.1002/HBM.22928\n10.1002/AUR.1494\n10.1038/s41598-020-78885-z\n10.1007/s10803-012-1719-1\n10.1006/nimg.2002.1132\n10.1002/hbm.20219\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2009.07.051\n10.1073/pnas.0600674103\n10.1016/j.celrep.2013.10.003\n10.1371/journal.pone.0104989\n10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.02.019\n10.1038/s41467-017-00908-7\n10.1002/aur.2476\n10.7554/eLife.47427\n10.1111/j.1469-7610.2012.02547.x\n10.1023/A:1005592401947\n10.15585/mmwr.ss7011a1\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2021.118408\n10.1038/s41586-022-04492-9\n10.1016/j.dcn.2019.100706\n10.1007/S10803-007-0410-4/TABLES/4\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2018.01.029\n10.1093/biostatistics/kxw050\n10.1016/J.JCLINEPI.2006.01.009\n10.1002/SIM.3445\n10.2466/pms.2003.97.3f.1315\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.03.028\n10.1093/cercor/bhy117\n10.1186/s11689-016-9154-9\n10.1186/S11689-016-9154-9/TABLES/3\n10.1016/j.bpsc.2017.04.004\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.12.073\n10.1177/0962280210386207?casa_token=Gl1Y4z0IAQUAAAAA%3AajHKDwvSGGqGM8\u00d79J0fuxIg6i2ZDFb-Z90XzafyDOOGPBgvUMb4-L5-quVzmIgJAJu1kuEeqpgM-fQ\n10.1177/0962280210386207\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.08.009\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.10.018\n10.1093/cercor/bhaa139\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.08.048\n10.1016/J.DCN.2019.100750\n10.3389/fnhum.2013.00573\n10.1097/00004583-200001000-00017\n10.1016/J.BPSC.2018.08.009\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2015.10.068\n10.1016/0270-0255(86)90088-6\n10.1080/01621459.1994.10476818\n10.1016/j.nicl.2012.11.006\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.12.063\n10.1093/aje/kww165\n10.1016/j.dcn.2021.101009\n10.1097/CHI.0b013e318179964f\n10.1093/AJE/KWQ472\n10.1038/s41593-017-0004-1\n10.1214/09-STS313\n10.2196/22942\n10.1016/j.celrep.2013.10.001\n10.1093/cercor/bht040\n10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2013.104\n10.1007/s10548-019-00744-6\n10.2202/1544-6115.1309/html\n10.2202/1544-6115.1309\n10.2202/1557-4679.1043/MACHINEREADABLECITATION/RIS\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.07.044\n10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116326\n10.1097/EDE.0b013e3181bd5638\n10.1016/j.dcn.2018.10.004\n10.1016/J.BPSC.2016.02.003\n10.1007/978-0-387-21706-2\n10.18637/jss.v077.i01\n10.1093/cercor/bhaa380\n10.1002/AUR.2417\n10.1016/J.NEUROIMAGE.2013.03.004", 
    "abstract": "Although loneliness itself is a natural emotion, prolonged loneliness is detrimental to human health. Despite its detrimental effect, few loneliness-related neuroimaging studies have been published and some have limitations on the sample size number. This study aims to find the difference in resting-state functional connectivity associated with loneliness within a big sample size via the seed-based approach. Functional connectivity analysis was performed on a large cohort of young adults (N\u2009=\u20091336) using the seed-based functional connectivity approach to address the concern from previous studies. The analysis yielded statistically significant positive correlations between loneliness and functional connectivities between the inferior frontal gyrus and supplementary motor area, precentral gyrus, and superior parietal lobule. Additionally, the analysis replicated a finding from a previous study, which is increased functional connectivities between the inferior frontal gyrus and supplementary motor area. In conclusion, greater loneliness is reflected by stronger functional connectivity of the visual attention brain area.", 
    "abstract": "The pathophysiology of paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia (PKD) remains elusive to date; however, several lines of evidence from neuroimaging studies suggest involvement of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical network in PKD. We combined fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) and seed-based functional connectivity (FC) analyses in order to comprehensively investigate intrinsic brain activity alterations and their relationships with disease severity in patients with idiopathic PKD.\nResting-state functional MRI data were obtained and processed in 34 PKD patients and 34 matched controls. fALFF and seed-based FC maps were computed and compared between patients and controls. Linear regression analysis was further performed between regional fALFF values or FC strengths and clinical parameters in patients.\nPKD patients had a significant increase in fALFF in bilateral thalamus and cerebellum compared with controls. FC analysis seeding at the thalamic clusters revealed significant FC increases in motor cortex and supplementary motor area in PKD patients relative to controls. Longer disease duration was associated with increasing FC strength between the thalamus and motor cortex.\nWe have provided evidence for abnormal intrinsic activity in the cerebello-thalamic circuit and increased thalamofrontal FC in PKD patients, implicating interictal cerebello-thalamofrontal dysconnectivity in the pathophysiology of PKD. Given the increasing FC strength in proportion to disease duration, the thalamofrontal hyperconnectivity might reflect either a consequence of recurrent dyskinesias on the brain or an innate pathology causing dyskinesias in PKD.", 
    "abstract": "Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is a rare genetic neurodegenerative disease. The neurobiological basis of SCA3 is still poorly understood, and up until now resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) has not been used to study this disease. In the current study we investigated (multi-echo) rs-fMRI data from patients with genetically confirmed SCA3 (n\u00a0=\u00a017) and matched healthy subjects (n\u00a0=\u00a016). Using independent component analysis (ICA) and subsequent regression with bootstrap resampling, we identified a pattern of differences between patients and healthy subjects, which we coined the fMRI SCA3 related pattern (fSCA3-RP) comprising cerebellum, anterior striatum and various cortical regions. Individual fSCA3-RP scores were highly correlated with a previously published ", 
    "abstract": "The fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) method has been underutilized in research on the pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of ocular hypertension (OH).\nThis study uses resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and fALFF to investigate the nature of spontaneous brain activity in OH patients and the relationship, if any, between changes in activity and clinical features.\nA total of 18 subjects (9 females and 9 males) with ocular hypertension (OH) and 18 healthy controls (HCs) matched for gender, age, and educational level were recruited to this study. All participants underwent an rs-fMRI scan, and spontaneous brain activity was assessed using the fALFF method. Receiver operating characteristic curves were plotted to investigate differences between OH and HC groups.\nThe fALFF values of OH patients were significantly higher in the left precuneus lobe (LP), compared with the same region in controls (\nHigh spontaneous activity in two brain areas may reflect neuropathological mechanisms underpinning visual impairment in OH patients.", 
    "abstract": "Circadian rhythms (lasting approximately 24\u00a0h) control and entrain various physiological processes, ranging from neural activity and hormone secretion to sleep cycles and eating habits. Several studies have shown that time of day (TOD) is associated with human cognition and brain functions. In this study, utilizing a chronotype-based paradigm, we applied a graph theory approach on resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) data to compare whole-brain functional network topology between morning and evening sessions and between morning-type (MT) and evening-type (ET) participants. Sixty-two individuals (31 MT and 31 ET) underwent two fMRI sessions, approximately 1\u00a0hour (morning) and 10\u00a0h (evening) after their wake-up time, according to their declared habitual sleep-wake pattern on a regular working day. In the global analysis, the findings revealed the effect of TOD on functional connectivity (FC) patterns, including increased small-worldness, assortativity, and synchronization across the day. However, we identified no significant differences based on chronotype categories. The study of the modular structure of the brain at mesoscale showed that functional networks tended to be more integrated with one another in the evening session than in the morning session. Local/regional changes were affected by both factors (i.e., TOD and chronotype), mostly in areas associated with somatomotor, attention, frontoparietal, and default networks. Furthermore, connectivity and hub analyses revealed that the somatomotor, ventral attention, and visual networks covered the most highly connected areas in the morning and evening sessions: the latter two were more active in the morning sessions, and the first was identified as being more active in the evening. Finally, we performed a correlation analysis to determine whether global and nodal measures were associated with subjective assessments across participants. Collectively, these findings contribute to an increased understanding of diurnal fluctuations in resting brain activity and highlight the role of TOD in future studies on brain function and the design of fMRI experiments.", 
    "abstract": "Neurobiological mechanisms underlying the recurrence of major depressive disorder (MDD) at different ages are unclear, and this study used the regional homogeneity (ReHo) index to compare whether there are differences between early onset recurrent depression (EORD) and late onset recurrent depression (LORD).\nEighteen EORD patients, 18 LORD patients, 18 young healthy controls (HCs), and 18 older HCs were included in the rs-fMRI scans. ReHo observational metrics were used for image analysis and further correlation of differential brain regions with clinical symptoms was analyzed.\nANOVA analysis revealed significant differences between the four groups in ReHo values in the prefrontal, parietal, temporal lobes, and insula. Compared with EORD, the LORD had higher ReHo in the right fusiform gyrus/right middle temporal gyrus, left middle temporal gyrus/left angular gyrus, and right middle temporal gyrus/right angular gyrus, and lower ReHo in the right inferior frontal gyrus/right insula and left superior temporal gyrus/left insula. Compared with young HCs, the EORD had higher ReHo in the right inferior frontal gyrus/right insula, left superior temporal gyrus/left insula, and left rolandic operculum gyrus/left superior temporal gyrus, and lower ReHo in the left inferior parietal lobule, right inferior parietal lobule, and left middle temporal gyrus/left angular gyrus. Compared with old HCs, the LORD had higher ReHo in the right fusiform gyrus/right middle temporal gyrus, right middle temporal gyrus/right angular gyrus, and left rolandic operculum gyrus/left superior temporal gyrus, and lower ReHo in the right inferior frontal gyrus/right insula. ReHo in the right inferior frontal gyrus/right insula of patients with LORD was negatively correlated with the severity of 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD-17) scores (\nAdult EORD and LORD patients of different ages have abnormal neuronal functional activity in some brain regions, with differences closely related to the default mode network (DMN) and the salience network (SN), and patients of each age group exhibit ReHo abnormalities relative to matched HCs.\n[http://www.chictr.org.cn/], [ChiCTR1800014277].", 
    "abstract": "Cervical spondylosis (CS) is often accompanied by persistent cervical pain, and psychological complications including depression and anxiety, which aggravate pain. Past studies have revealed brain alterations in chronic pain patients. However, the cortical mechanism for NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) responders relative to non-responders is still lacking. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the brain functional differences between responders to NSAID relative to non-responders using amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and dynamic functional connectivity variance (DFCV). To our knowledge, our study is the first to investigate the DFCV in CS patients.\nWe first explored the differences in psychological inventories in CS patients who respond to NSAID vs non-responders. The voxel-wise ALFF was calculated and compared between CS patients and healthy controls. The ALFF within the resultant clusters were extracted and compared between responders and non-responders. DFCV among the resulting clusters was compared in responders vs non-responders.\nWe found that (1) compared to responders, non-responders exhibited higher levels of anxiety and depression; (2) relative to healthy controls, CS patients exhibited altered ALFF within the middle cingulate cortice (MCC), cerebellum, and middle frontal gyrus (MFG); (3) moreover, compared with responders, non-responders exhibited lower ALFF within MCC; furthermore, non-responders also exhibited increased DFCV between MCC and cerebellum, and between MCC and MFG.\nOur data indicate that psychological comorbidities (e.g., anxiety) influence response to NSAID in CS patients. Relative to NSAID responders, non-responders had altered MCC function, which may be associated with anxiety in CS patients.", 
    "abstract": "Multiple neuroimaging studies have examined the neural underpinnings of body image disturbances in patients with eating disorders. However, key brain regions related to body image, such as body-esteem (BE), among healthy individuals are understudied. Given the extremely crucial role of BE in eating behaviors and physical and mental health, the current study conducted data-driven analysis and characterized the neurobiological correlates of BE with the network properties of the resting brain using the voxel-wise degree centrality (DC) measures of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data and seed-based resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC). A total of 694 healthy young adults (females\u00a0=\u00a0474, mean age\u00a0=\u00a018.38\u2009years, range\u00a0=\u00a017-22) underwent rs-fMRI, and completed the Body-Esteem Scale for Adolescents and Adults, the Eating Disorder Diagnosis Scale, and the Restraint Scale. After correcting for differences in age, gender, body mass index, and head motion, whole-brain correlation analyses revealed that a high level of BE was associated with increased DC within the right midcingulate cortex (MCC) and subsequent high levels of MCC-based RSFC strengths. Furthermore, MCC connectivity patterns related to BE were inversely associated with disordered eating behaviors. These findings suggest that adaptive cognitive and emotional regulation (i.e., self-evaluation and emotion based on body image) may explain the potential relationship between MCC connectivity patterns and BE to a certain extent. As such, future studies should investigate these interesting possibilities.", 
    "abstract": "Most current research on Alzheimer's disease (AD) is based on transverse measurements. Given the nature of neurodegeneration in AD progression, observing longitudinal changes in the structural features of brain networks over time may improve the accuracy of the predicted transformation and provide a good measure of the progression of AD. Currently, there is no cure for patients with existing AD dementia, but patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in the prodromal stage of AD dementia may be diagnosed. The study of the early diagnosis of MCI and the prediction of MCI to AD transformation is of great significance for the monitoring of the MCI to AD transformation process. Despite the high rate of MCI conversion to AD, the neuropathological cause of MCI is heterogeneous. However, many people with MCI remain stable. Treatment options are different for patients with stable MCI and those with underlying dementia. Therefore, it is of great significance for clinical practice to predict whether patients with MCI will develop AD dementia. This paper proposes an improved algorithm that is based on a convolution neural network (CNN) with residuals combined with multi-layer long short-term memory (LSTM) to diagnose AD and predict MCI. Firstly, multi-time resting-state fMRI images were obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database for preprocessing, and then an AAL brain partition template was used to construct a 90 \u00d7 90 functional connectivity (FC) network matrix of a whole-brain region of interest (ROI). Secondly, the diversity of training samples was increased by generating an adversarial network (GAN). Finally, a CNN with residuals and a multi-layer LSTM model were constructed to automatically classify and predict the functional adjacency matrix. This method can not only distinguish Alzheimer's disease from normal health conditions at multiple time points, but can also predict progressive MCI (pMCI) and stable MCI (sMCI) at multiple time points. The classification accuracies in AD vs. NC and sMCI vs.pMCI reached 93.5% and 75.5%, respectively.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to explore the clinical value of the static amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (sALFF) and dynamic amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (dALFF) in the identification of brain functional alterations in degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) patients.\nVoxel-wise sALFF and dALFF of 47 DCM patients and 44 healthy controls were calculated using resting-state fMRI data, and an intergroup comparison was performed. The mean of sALFF or dALFF data were extracted within the resultant clusters and the correlation analysis of these data with the clinical measures was performed. Furthermore, whole-brain-wise and region-wise multivariate pattern analyses (MVPAs) were performed to classify DCM patients and healthy controls. sALFF and dALFF were used to predict the prognosis of DCM patients.\nThe findings showed that (1) DCM patients exhibited higher sALFF within the left thalamus and putamen compared with that of the healthy controls. DCM patients also exhibited lower dALFF within bilateral postcentral gyrus compared with the healthy controls; (2) No significant correlations were observed between brain alterations and clinical measures through univariate correlation analysis; (3) sALFF (91%) and dALFF (95%) exhibited high accuracy in classifying the DCM patients and healthy controls; (4) Region-wise MVPA further revealed brain regions in which functional patterns were associated with prognosis in DCM patients. These regions were mainly located at the frontal lobe and temporal lobe.\nIn summary, sALFF and dALFF can be used to accurately reveal brain functional alterations in DCM patients. Furthermore, the multivariate approach is a more sensitive method in exploring neuropathology and establishing a prognostic biomarker for DCM compared with the conventional univariate method.", 
    "abstract": "The representation of variability in sensitivity to pain by differences in neural connectivity patterns and its association with psychological factors needs further investigation. This study assessed differences in resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) and its association to cognitive-affective aspects of pain in two groups of healthy subjects with low versus high sensitivity to pain (LSP vs. HSP). We hypothesized that HSP will show stronger connectivity in brain regions involved in the affective-motivational processing of pain and that this higher connectivity would be related to negative affective and cognitive evaluations of pain.\nForty-eight healthy subjects were allocated to two groups according to their tolerability to cold stimulation (cold pressor test, CPT, 1\u00b0C). Group LSP (N = 24) reached the cut-off time of 180\u00b10 sec and group HSP tolerated the CPT for an average of 13\u00b14.8 sec. Heat, cold and mechanical evoked pain were measured, as well as pain-catastrophizing (PCS), depression, anxiety and stress (DASS-21). All subjects underwent resting state fMRI. ROI-to-ROI analysis was performed.\nIn comparison to the LSP, the HSP had stronger interhemispheric connectivity of the amygdala (p = 0.01) and between the amygdala and nucleus accumbens (NAc) (p = 0.01). Amygdala connectivity was associated with higher pain catastrophizing in the HSP only (p<0.01).\nThese findings suggest that high sensitivity to pain may be reflected by neural circuits involved in affective and motivational aspects of pain. To what extent this connectivity within limbic brain structures relates to higher alertness and more profound withdrawal behavior to aversive events needs to be further investigated.", 
    "abstract": "Multiple sclerosis (MS) disease causes structural and functional damage to brain. Structural imaging of the MS-induced damage cannot adequately describe the functional impairment of the brain in MS patients. Therefore, it seems that advanced functional imaging analysis such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data is needed for better management of this disease.\nThe aim of present study was to evaluate the effective connectivity within the Papez circuit in MS patients using resting-state fMRI.\nIn this cross-sectional analytical study, 22 healthy individuals and 24 patients with MS underwent resting-state fMRI. After pre-processing of the obtained data, the time series of Cingulate gyrus (CG), Para hippocampus gyrus (PHG), anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN), Mammillary body (MB), and Hippocampus (HPC) were extracted as the main Papez circuit components. The obtained time series were statistically analyzed as an input of the dynamic causal model in order to evaluate the effective connectivity in the Papez circuit.\nThe power of effective connectivity between each pair of tested nodes in Papez circuit was significantly lower in MS patients than healthy subjects. Also, the effective connectivity level of MS patients in direction of HPC\u2192ATN was higher in men than women. In addition, effective self-connection in CG\u2192CG and MB\u2192MB regions in healthy subjects were higher in women than them in men.\nThe present study reveals significant difference in effective connectivity of the Papez nodes in MS patients than control group, which can be exploited to diagnosis and predict or evaluate the treatment response of these patients.", 
    "abstract": "Central aspects of alcohol use disorder (AUD) are the irresistible desire for alcohol and impaired control over its intake. According to the triadic neurocognitive model of addiction, this arises from aberrant functioning of different neural and cognitive systems: an impulsive system, a reflective system, and the abnormal dynamics between both systems based on an insular-dependent system.\nIn this study, we examined the effects of a single dose of nalmefene on resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) patterns within and between these addiction-related neural systems in AUD.\nNon-treatment seeking participants with AUD (N\u2009=\u200917; 19-66\u00a0years, 6 female) took part in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study and received either a single dose of 18\u00a0mg nalmefene or a placebo. Using seed-based correlation analyses on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data, we examined the effects of nalmefene on key nodes related to the (1) impulsive system; (2) reflective system; (3) salience network; and (4) default mode network.\nUnder nalmefene, participants showed reduced rsFC between components of the impulsive system (Nucleus accumbens-putamen/pallidum/insula). Reduced rsFC was found between elements of the reflective system and impulsive system (orbitofrontal cortex-insula/putamen/pallidum), salience network (orbitofrontal cortex-insula/inferior frontal gyrus), and default mode network (lateral prefrontal cortex-precuneus/cuneus). Components of the salience network showed both increased (anterior cingulate cortex) and decreased (insular cortex) rsFC to elements of the reflective system.\nA single dose of nalmefene impacts rsFC and alters the interaction between key nodes of addiction-related neural systems in non-treatment seeking participants with AUD. Nalmefene may normalize rsFC patterns by weakening the impulsive system while strengthening the reflective system.\nclinicaltrials.gov: NCT02372318.", 
    "abstract": "Researches using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) have applied different regional measurements to study the intrinsic brain activity (IBA) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Most previous studies have only examined the static characteristics of IBA in patients with PD, neglecting the dynamic features. We sought to explore the concordance between the dynamics of different rs-fMRI regional indices. This study included 31 healthy controls (HCs) and 57 PD patients to calculate the volume-wise (across voxels) and voxel-wise (across periods) concordance using a sliding time window approach. This allowed us to compare the concordance of dynamic alterations in frequently used metrics such as degree centrality (DC), global signal connectivity (GSC), voxel-mirrored heterotopic connectivity (VMHC), the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF), and regional homogeneity (ReHo). We analyzed the changes of concordance indices in the PD patients and investigated the relationship between aberrant concordance values and clinical/neuropsychological assessments in the PD patients. We found that, compared with the HCs, the PD patients had lower volume concordance in the whole brain and lower voxel-wise concordance in the posterior cerebellar lobe, cerebellar tonsils, superior temporal gyrus, and supplementary motor region. We also found negative correlations between these concordance alterations and patients' age. The exploratory results contribute to a better understanding of IBA alterations and pathophysiological mechanisms in PD.", 
    "abstract": "Head motion continues to be a major problem in fMRI research, particularly in developmental studies where an inverse relationship exists between head motion and age. Despite multifaceted and costly efforts to mitigate motion and motion-related signal artifact, few studies have characterized in-scanner head motion itself. This study leverages a large transdiagnostic public dataset (N = 1388, age 5-21y, The Healthy Brain Network Biobank) to characterize pediatric head motion in space, frequency, and time. We focus on practical aspects of head motion that could impact future study design, including comparing motion across groups (low, medium, and high movers), across conditions (movie-watching and rest), and between males and females. Analyses showed that in all conditions, high movers exhibited a different pattern of motion than low and medium movers that was dominated by x-rotation, and z- and y-translation. High motion spikes (>0.3mm) from all participants also showed this pitch-z-y pattern. Problematic head motion is thus composed of a single type of biomechanical motion, which we infer to be a nodding movement, providing a focused target for motion reduction strategies. A second type of motion was evident via spectral analysis of raw displacement data. This was observed in low and medium movers and was consistent with respiration rates. We consider this to be a baseline of motion best targeted in data preprocessing. Further, we found that males moved more than, but not differently from, females. Significant cross-condition differences in head motion were found. Movies had lower mean motion, and especially in high movers, movie-watching reduced within-run linear increases in head motion (i.e., temporal drift). Finally, we used intersubject correlations of framewise displacement (FD-ISCs) to assess for stimulus-correlated motion trends. Subject motion was more correlated in movie than rest, and 8 out of top 10 FD-ISC windows had FD below the mean. Possible reasons and future implications of these findings are discussed.", 
    "abstract": "visual expertise and experience modulate evoked brain activity in response to training-related stimuli. However, few studies have considered how the visual experience is represented in the resting state brain activity. This study tried to investigate the way visual experience, i.e., visual recognition expertise, modulates baseline brain neuronal activity in the resting state using the model of radiologists.\nThe amplitude of low-frequency (<\u20090.08\u00a0Hz) fluctuation (ALFF) was used as the metric of baseline brain activity and a visual expertise model of radiologists to investigated this question. The visual recognition skill enables them to accurately identify pathological information in medical images. After the behavior measurement, a cohort group of radiology interns (n\u2009=\u200922) and a group of matched layperson (n\u2009=\u200922) were selected for inclusion in the study. The resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans were performed for all of the subjects.\nHigher ALFF in the right fusiform gyrus and the left orbitofrontal cortex were observed, and the ALFF in the fusiform gyrus was correlated with the intern radiologists' behavioral expertise(all results corrected for multiple comparisons).\nVisual experience modulates the baseline brain activity in both high-level visual cortex and high-order cognitive cortex, indicating the engagement of both top-down and bottom-up facilitation. We provide a novel perspective to how visual experience modulated cortical brain activity by introducing the resting state changes. Also, we propose that our current study may provide novel ideas for the development of new training protocols in medical school.", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mood disorder. However, it still remains challenging to select sensitive biomarkers and establish reliable diagnosis methods currently. This study aimed to investigate the abnormalities of the spontaneous brain activity in the MDD and explore the clinical diagnostic value of three amplitude metrics in altered regions by applying the support vector machine (SVM) method.\nA total of fifty-two HCs and forty-eight MDD patients were recruited in the study. The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF) and percent amplitude of fluctuation (PerAF) metrics were calculated to assess local spontaneous brain activity. Then we performed correlation analysis to examine the association between cerebral abnormalities and clinical characteristics. Finally, SVM analysis was applied to conduct the classification model for evaluating the diagnostic value.\nTwo-sample t-test exhibited that MDD patients had increased ALFF value in the right caudate and corpus callosum, increased fALFF value in the same regions and increased PerAF value in the inferior parietal lobule and right caudate compared to HCs. Moreover, PerAF value in the inferior parietal lobule was negatively correlated with the slow factor scores. The SVM results showed that a combination of mean ALFF and fALFF in the right caudate and corpus callosum selected as features achieved a highest area under curve (AUC) value (0.89), accuracy (79.79%), sensitivity (65.12%) and specificity (92.16%).\nCollectively, we found increased mean ALFF and fALFF may serve as a potential neuroimaging marker to discriminate MDD and HCs.", 
    "abstract": "To determine if functional connectivity measured with resting-state functional MRI could be used as a tool to assess unilateral spatial neglect during stroke recovery.\nResting-state functional MRI was performed on 13 stroke patients with lesions in the right cerebral hemisphere and 31 healthy subjects. The functional connectivity score was defined as a correlation of a target region with the right inferior parietal lobule. Spatial neglect was measured with a behavioral inattention test.\nFirst, the functional connectivity scores between the right inferior parietal lobule and right inferior frontal gyrus, including the opercular and triangular parts, were significantly decreased in stroke patients with unilateral spatial neglect compared with patients without unilateral spatial neglect and were significantly correlated with the behavioral inattention test score. Second, the functional connectivity scores between the bilateral inferior parietal lobules were also significantly decreased in patients with unilateral spatial neglect compared with patients without unilateral spatial neglect and were significantly correlated with the behavioral inattention test score. Third, negative functional connectivity scores between the right inferior parietal lobule and bilateral medial orbitofrontal cortexes, which are related to the default mode network, were detected in patients without unilateral spatial neglect in contrast to a reduction of this negative tendency in patients with unilateral spatial neglect. The functional connectivity scores between these regions were significantly different between patients with and without unilateral spatial neglect and were negatively correlated with the behavioral inattention test score.\nThough still in the pilot research stage and using a small number of cases, our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that functional connectivity maps generated with resting-state functional MRI may be used as a tool to evaluate unilateral spatial neglect during stroke recovery.", 
    "abstract": "Recent research into the effects of hormonal contraceptives on emotion processing and brain function suggests that hormonal contraceptive users show (a) reduced accuracy in recognizing emotions compared to naturally cycling women, and (b) alterations in amygdala volume and connectivity at rest. To date, these observations have not been linked, although the amygdala has certainly been identified as core region activated during emotion recognition. To assess, whether volume, oscillatory activity and connectivity of emotion-related brain areas at rest are predictive of participant's ability to recognize facial emotional expressions, 72 participants (20 men, 20 naturally cycling women, 16 users of androgenic contraceptives, 16 users of anti-androgenic contraceptives) completed a brain structural and resting state fMRI scan, as well as an emotion recognition task. Our results showed that resting brain characteristics did not mediate oral contraceptive effects on emotion recognition performance. However, sex and oral contraceptive use emerged as a moderator of brain-behavior associations. Sex differences did emerge in the prediction of emotion recognition performance by the left amygdala amplitude of low frequency oscillations (ALFF) for anger, as well as left and right amygdala connectivity for fear. Anti-androgenic oral contraceptive users (OC) users stood out in that they showed strong brain-behavior associations, usually in the opposite direction as naturally cycling women, while androgenic OC-users showed a pattern similar to, but weaker, than naturally cycling women. This result suggests that amygdala ALFF and connectivity have predictive values for facial emotion recognition. The importance of the different connections depends heavily on sex hormones and oral contraceptive use.", 
    "abstract": "Manual classification of functional resting state networks (RSNs) derived from Independent Component Analysis (ICA) decomposition can be labor intensive and requires expertise, particularly in large multi-subject analyses. Hence, a fully automatic algorithm that can reliably classify these RSNs is desirable. In this paper, we present a deep learning approach based on a Siamese Network to learn a discriminative feature representation for single-subject ICA component classification. Advantages of this supervised framework are that it requires relatively few training data examples and it does not require the number of ICA components to be specified. In addition, our approach permits one-shot learning, which allows generalization to new classes not seen in the training set with only one example of each new class. The proposed method is shown to out-perform traditional convolutional neural network (CNN) and template matching methods in identifying eleven subject-specific RSNs, achieving 100% accuracy on a holdout data set and over 99% accuracy on an outside data set. We also demonstrate that the method is robust to scan-rescan variation. Finally, we show that the functional connectivity of default mode and salience networks identified by the proposed technique is altered in a group analysis of mild traumatic brain injury (TBI), severe TBI, and healthy subjects.", 
    "abstract": "The long short-term memory network (LSTM) is widely used in time series data processing as a temporal recursive network. The resting-state functional magnetic resonance data shows that not only are there temporal variations in the resting state, but there are also interactions between brain regions. To integrate the temporal and spatial characteristics of brain regions, this paper proposes a model called feature weighted-LSTM (FW-LSTM). The feature weight is defined by spatial characteristics calculating the frequency of connectivity of each brain region and further integrated into the LSTM. Thus, it can comprehensively model both temporal and spatial changes in rs-fMRI brain regions. The FW-LSTM model on the Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (ADNI) dataset is used to extract the time-varying characteristics of 90 brain regions for Alzheimer's disease (AD) classification. The model performances are 77.80%, 76.41%, and 78.81% in accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity. It outperformed the one-dimensional convolutional neural networks (1D-CNN) model and LSTM model, which only used temporal features of brain regions.", 
    "abstract": "Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a rare genetic disorder with multisystem involvement. TSC is characterized by benign hamartomas in multiple organs, including the brain, and its clinical phenotypes may be associated with abnormal functional connections. We aimed to use resting-state functional connectivity to provide findings of disrupted functional brain networks in TSC patients using graph theoretical analysis (GTA) and network-based statistic (NBS) analysis.Forty TSC patients (age = 24.11+/-11.44 years old) and 18 age-matched (25.13+/- 10.01 years old) healthy controls were recruited; they underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging using a 3T magnetic resonance imaging scanner. After image preprocessing and removing physiological noises, GTA was used to calculate the topological parameters of the brain network. NBS analysis was then used to determine the differences in cerebrum functional connectivity between the 2 groups.In GTA, several topological parameters, including the clustering coefficient, local efficiency, transitivity, and modularity, were better in controls than in TSC patients (P < .05). In NBS analysis, the edges of the brain networks between the groups were compared. One subnetwork showed more edges in controls than in TSC patients (P < .05), including the connections from the frontal lobe to the temporal and parietal lobe.The study results provide the findings on disrupted functional connectivity and organization in TSC patients compared with controls. The findings may help better understand the underlying physiological mechanisms of brain connection in TSC.", 
    "abstract": "Alterations to interactions between networked brain regions underlie cognitive impairment in many neurodegenerative diseases, providing an important physiological link between brain structure and cognitive function. Previous attempts to characterize the effects of Parkinson's disease (PD) on network functioning using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), however, have yielded inconsistent and contradictory results. Potential problems with prior work arise in the specifics of how the area targeted by the diseases (the basal ganglia) interacts with other brain regions. Specifically, current computational models point to the fact that the basal ganglia contributions should be captured with modulatory (i.e., second-order) rather than direct (i.e., first-order) functional connectivity measures. Following this hypothesis, a principled but manageable large-scale brain architecture, the Common Model of Cognition, was used to identify differences in basal ganglia connectivity in PD by analyzing resting-state fMRI data from 111 participants (70 patients with PD; 41 healthy controls) using Dynamic Causal Modeling (DCM). Specifically, the functional connectivity of the basal ganglia was modeled as two second-level, modulatory connections that control projections from sensory cortices to the prefrontal cortex, and from the hippocampus and medial temporal lobe to the prefrontal cortex. We then examined group differences between patients with PD and healthy controls in estimated modulatory effective connectivity in these connections. The ", 
    "abstract": "Subject-level independent component analysis (ICA) is a well-established and widely used approach in denoising of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. However, approaches such as ICA-FIX and ICA-AROMA require advanced setups and\u00a0can be computationally intensive. Here, we aim to introduce a user-friendly, computationally lightweight toolbox for labeling independent signal and noise components, termed Alternative Labeling Tool (ALT). ALT uses two features that require manual tuning: proportion of an independent component's spatial map located inside gray matter and positive skew of the power spectrum. ALT is tightly integrated with the commonly used FMRIB's statistical library (FSL). Using the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies (OASIS-3) ageing dataset (n\u2009=\u2009275), we found that ALT shows a high degree of inter-rater agreement with manual labeling (over 86% of true positives for both signal and noise components on average). In conclusion, ALT can be extended to small and large-scale datasets when the use of more complex tools such as ICA-FIX is not possible. ALT will thus allow for more widespread adoption of ICA-based denoising of resting-state fMRI data.", 
    "abstract": "Hemodynamic cardiac and respiratory-cycle fluctuations are a source of unwanted non-neuronal signal components, often called physiologic noise, in resting state (rs-) fMRI studies. Here, we use image-based retrospective correction of physiological motion (RETROICOR) with externally measured physiologic signals to investigate cardiac and respiratory hemodynamic phase functions reflected in rs-fMRI data. We find that the cardiac phase function is time shifted locally, while the respiratory phase function is described as single, fixed phase form across the brain. In light of these findings, we propose an update to Physiologic EStimation by Temporal ICA (PESTICA), our publically available software package that estimates physiologic signals when external physiologic measures are not available. This update incorporates: 1) auto-selection of slicewise physiologic regressors and generation of physiologic fixed phase regressors with total slices/TR sampling rate, 2) Fourier series expansion of the cardiac fixed phase regressor to account for time delayed cardiac noise 3) removal of cardiac and respiratory noise in imaging data. We compare the efficacy of the updated method to RETROICOR.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) is a non-invasive functional neuroimaging modality that has been widely used to investigate functional connectomes in the brain. Since noise and artifacts generated by non-neuronal physiological activities are predominant in raw rs-fMRI data, effective noise removal is one of the most important preprocessing steps prior to any subsequent analysis. For rs-fMRI denoising, a common trend is to decompose rs-fMRI data into multiple components and then regress out noise-related components. Therefore, various machine learning techniques have been used in such analyses with predefined procedures and manually engineered features. However, the lack of a universal definition of a noise-related source or artifact complicates manual feature engineering. Manual feature selection can result in the failure to capture unknown types of noise. Furthermore, the possibility that the hand-crafted features will only work for the broader population (e.g., healthy adults) but not for \"outliers\" (e.g., infants or subjects that belong to a disease cohort) is quite high. In practice, we have limited knowledge of which features should be extracted; thus, multi-classifier assembly must be implemented to improve performance, although this process is quite time-consuming. However, in real rs-fMRI applications, fast and accurate automatic identification of noise-related components on different datasets is critical. To solve this problem, we propose a novel, automatic, and end-to-end deep learning framework dedicated to noise-related component identification via a faster and more effective multi-layer feature extraction strategy that learns deeply embedded spatio-temporal features of the components. In this study, we achieved remarkable performance on various rs-fMRI datasets, including multiple adult rs-fMRI datasets from different rs-fMRI studies and an infant rs-fMRI dataset, which is quite heterogeneous and differs from that of adults. Our proposed framework also dramatically increases the noise detection speed owing to its inherent ability for deep learning (< 1s for single-component classification). It can be easily integrated into any preprocessing pipeline, even those that do not use standard procedures but depend on alternative toolboxes.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) is a widely used technique to investigate the residual brain functions of patients with Disorders of Consciousness (DoC). Nonetheless, it is unclear how the networks that are more associated with primary functions, such as the sensory-motor, medial/lateral visual and auditory networks, contribute to clinical assessment. In this study, we examined the rs-fMRI lower-order networks alongside their structural MRI data to clarify the corresponding association with clinical assessment. We studied 109 chronic patients with DoC and emerged from DoC with structural MRI and rs-fMRI: 65 in vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness state (VS/UWS), 34 in minimally conscious state (MCS) and 10 with severe disability. rs-fMRI data were analyzed with independent component analyses and seed-based analyses, in relation to structural MRI and clinical data. The results showed that VS/UWS had fewer networks than MCS patients and the rs-fMRI activity in each network was decreased. Visual networks were correlated to the clinical status, and in cases where no clinical response occurred, rs-fMRI indicated distinctive networks conveying information in a similar way to other techniques. The information provided by single networks was limited, whereas the four networks together yielded better classification results, particularly when the model included rs-fMRI and structural MRI data (AUC = 0.80). Both quantitative and qualitative rs-fMRI analyses yielded converging results; vascular etiology might confound the results, and disease duration generally reduced the number of networks observed. The lower-order rs-fMRI networks could be used clinically to support and corroborate visual function assessments in DoC.", 
    "abstract": "Hyperbolic disc embedding and k-core percolation reveal the hierarchical structure of functional connectivity on resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI). Using 180 normal adults' rsfMRI data from the human connectome project database, we visualized inter-voxel relations by embedding voxels on the hyperbolic space using the [Formula: see text] model. We also conducted k-core percolation on 30 participants to investigate core voxels for each individual. It recursively peels the layer off, and this procedure leaves voxels embedded in the center of the hyperbolic disc. We used independent components to classify core voxels, and it revealed stereotypes of individuals such as visual network dominant, default mode network dominant, and distributed patterns. Characteristic core structures of resting-state brain connectivity of normal subjects disclosed the distributed or asymmetric contribution of voxels to the k", 
    "abstract": "Patients with schizophrenia consistently present pervasive cognitive deficits, but the neurobiological mechanism of cognitive impairments remains unclear. By analyzing regional homogeneity (ReHo) of resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging, this study aimed to explore the association between brain functional alterations and cognitive deficits in first-episode schizophrenia (FES) with a relatively large sample.\nA total of 187 patients with FES and 100 healthy controls from 3 independent cohorts underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance scans. The MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB) was used to assess cognitive function. Partial correlation analysis was performed between abnormal ReHo values and the severity of symptoms and cognitive deficits.\nCompared with healthy controls, ReHo values increased in right superior frontal cortex and decreased in right anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), left middle occipital gyrus (MOG), left cuneus, right posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), and right superior occipital gyrus in schizophrenia patients. ReHo values in ACC, PCC and superior occipital gyrus were correlated with PANSS scores. In addition, ReHo values in ACC and MOG were negatively correlated with working memory; left cuneus was positively correlated with multiple cognitive domains (speed of processing, attention/vigilance and social cognition); PCC was positively correlated with verbal learning; right superior occipital gyrus was positively correlated with speed of processing and social cognition.\nIn conclusion, we found widespread ReHo alterations and cognitive dysfunction in FES. And the pathophysiology mechanism of a wide range of cognitive deficits may be related to abnormal spontaneous brain activity.", 
    "abstract": "Chronic insomnia disorder (CID) is considered a major public health problem worldwide. Therefore, innovative and effective technical methods for studying the pathogenesis and clinical comprehensive treatment of CID are urgently needed.\nReal-time fMRI neurofeedback (rtfMRI-NF), a new intervention, was used to train 28 patients with CID to regulate their amygdala activity for three sessions in 6 weeks. Resting-state fMRI data were collected before and after training. Then, voxel-based degree centrality (DC) method was used to explore the effect of rtfMRI-NF training. For regions with altered DC, we determined the specific connections to other regions that most strongly contributed to altered functional networks based on DC. Furthermore, the relationships between the DC value of the altered regions and changes in clinical variables were determined.\nPatients with CID showed increased DC in the right postcentral gyrus, Rolandic operculum, insula, and superior parietal gyrus and decreased DC in the right supramarginal gyrus, inferior parietal gyrus, angular gyrus, middle occipital gyrus, and middle temporal gyrus. Seed-based functional connectivity analyses based on the altered DC regions showed more details about the altered functional networks. Clinical scores in Pittsburgh sleep quality index, insomnia severity index (ISI), Beck depression inventory, and Hamilton anxiety scale decreased. Furthermore, a remarkable positive correlation was found between the changed ISI score and DC values of the right insula.\nThis study confirmed that amygdala-based rtfMRI-NF training altered the intrinsic functional hubs, which reshaped the abnormal functional connections caused by insomnia and improved the sleep of patients with CID. These findings contribute to our understanding of the neurobiological mechanism of rtfMRI-NF in insomnia treatment. However, additional double-blinded controlled clinical trials with larger sample sizes need to be conducted to confirm the effect of rtfMRI-NF from this initial study.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of the study is to explore the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) characteristics of the improvement in executive function by aerobic exercise in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Seventeen children with ADHD were selected for 8\u00a0weeks of rope skipping aerobic training, and fMRI findings and executive function were examined before and after training. Regional homogeneity (ReHo) and degree centrality (DC) indexes were used in fMRI analysis, whereas the flanker task was used to test executive function. A paired t test was used to compare the fMRI indexes and response time of executive function before and after training. After aerobic exercise, the brain regions in which the ReHo value of ADHD children significantly increased included the left middle frontal gyrus and the right superior frontal gyrus; the brain region in which the DC value increased was the right posterior cingulate cortex. The flanker task response time decreased significantly (P\u2009<\u20090.05, after correction) after aerobic exercise. The study findings support the hypothesis that aerobic exercise can improve the executive function of ADHD children, and the brain mechanism involved is mainly related to the enhancement of spontaneous prefrontal lobe activity.", 
    "abstract": "Different influences of ovarian hormones in schizophrenia (SCZ) have been reported, but no study to date has assessed their effects on the brain dynamics at rest. The present study aimed to examine the hormonal and clinical changes related to the menstrual cycle and alterations in the resting-state functional connectivity (RS-FC) depending on cycle phase and/or hormonal fluctuations in SCZ.\nThis study was conducted based on both between- and within-subject experimental designs, including 13 clinically stable female patients with SCZ (32 \u00b1 7.7 years) and 13 healthy women (30 \u00b1 7.3 years). RS-functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning, as well as hormonal and clinical assessments, was applied to each participant twice during two cycle phases: early follicular and mid-luteal.\nA difference in mid-luteal progesterone levels was found between groups, with a large effect size (Cohen's d) of 0.8 (p < 0.05). Also, the estradiol levels negatively correlated with the negative symptom severity of the patients during their mid-luteal phase. In the patients, estrogen positively correlated with the auditory network connectivity in the left amygdala during the early follicular phase. In the controls, progesterone had positive correlations with the connectivity of the posterior default mode and the left frontoparietal networks in the bilateral precuneus during the early follicular phase and had a negative correlation with the executive control network connectivity in the mid-luteal phase.\nThe present study showed hormonal differences between groups and suggested that the levels of cycle-dependent hormones might be associated with the changes in clinical symptom severity and the RS-FC in the groups. Our RS-fMRI findings warrant further investigation.", 
    "abstract": "For major depressive disorder (MDD), there has been a lack of neuroimaging markers of efficacy of pharmacological treatment. In this study, we aimed to explore the neuroimaging mechanisms in patients with first-episode MDD and identify markers that predict the efficacy of 5-hydroxytryptamine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) with the use of resting-state brain imaging technology.\nA total of 101 patients with first-episode MDD and 53 normal controls were finally included in this study. Based on the reduction rate of the score of Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17) during the 2-week SSRI treatment, 31 patients were assigned into the unresponsive group and 32 were assigned into the responsive group. The brain function was compared between patients with MDD and normal controls, and the diagnostic value of brain function was analyzed. With brain regions showing differences between patients with MDD and normal controls as a mask, and the brain function between the responsive and unresponsive groups were compared. Correlations between brain function the HAMD-17 score reduction rate during the 2-week SSRI treatment were analyzed.\nCompared to normal controls, patients with MDD showed increased ReHo in the left parahippocampal gyrus and right parahippocampal gyrus, decreased ReHo in the right middle occipital gyrus, and decreased functional connectivity between the right and left parahippocampal gyri, right middle occipital gyrus and middle temporal gyrus. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed that the area under the curve (AUC) was 0.544 (95% CI: 0.445-0.644) for ReHo and 0.822 (95% CI: 0.734-0.909) for functional connectivity. Logistic regression pooling of the differences in ReHo mean time series with the functional connectivity mean time series was performed for the ROC curve analysis, which showed an AUC of 0.832 (95% CI: 0.752-0.911). Compared to the responsive group, the unresponsive group showed elevated ReHo in the right parahippocampal gyrus and lower functional connectivity in the middle temporal gyrus. We also found that the ReHo value was negatively correlated with the HAMD-17 score reduction after 2 weeks of SSRI treatment.\nAltered resting-state brain function in some regions might be a neurobiological marker for the diagnosis of MDD, and ReHo values are expected to be predictors of patient response to treatment with SSRIs.\n[http://www.chictr.org.cn/], identifier [ChiCTR1900028722].", 
    "abstract": "Stroke is an important cause of cognitive impairment. Rich club organization, a highly interconnected network brain core region, is closely related to cognition. We hypothesized that the disturbance of rich club organization exists in patients with post-stroke cognitive impairment (PSCI).\nWe collected data on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) with 21 healthy controls (HC), 16 hemorrhagic stroke (hPSCI), and 21 infarct stroke (iPSCI). 3D shape features and first-order statistics of stroke lesions were extracted using 3D slicer software. Additionally, we assessed cognitive function using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE).\nNormalized rich club coefficients were higher in hPSCI and iPSCI than HC at low-degree \nThis study reveals the disrupted low-degree level rich club organization and relatively preserved functional core network in PSCI patients. Decreased feeder and local connections in cognition-related networks (DMN, SN, CN, and ORB), particularly involving the caudate nucleus, may offer insight into pathological mechanism of PSCI patients. The shape and signal features of stroke lesions may provide an essential clue for the damage of functional connectivity and the whole brain networks.", 
    "abstract": "Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is associated with altered activity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala, yet no studies have examined fronto-limbic circuitry in borderline adolescents and emerging adults. Here, we examined the contribution of fronto-limbic effective connectivity (EC) to the longitudinal stability of emotion-related impulsivity, a key feature of BPD, in symptomatic adolescents and young adults.\nWe compared resting-state EC in 82 adolescents and emerging adults with and without clinically significant borderline symptoms (\nIn controls, ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and dorsal ACC had a directed influence on CeN and VS, respectively. In the BPD group, bilateral BLA had a directed influence on CeN, whereas in the healthy group CeN influenced BLA. LGCMs indicated that emotion-related impulsivity was stable across a one-year follow-up in the BPD group. Further, higher EC of R CeN to other regions in controls was associated with stronger within-person decreases in emotion-related impulsivity.\nFunctional inputs from BLA and vmPFC appear to play competing roles in influencing CeN activity. In borderline adolescents and young adults, BLA may predominate over CeN activity, while in controls the ability of CeN to influence BLA activity predicted more rapid reductions in emotion-related impulsivity.", 
    "abstract": "Humans have long been fascinated by the opportunities afforded through motor augmentation provided by the supernumerary robotic fingers (SRFs) and limbs (SRLs). However, the neuroplasticity mechanism induced by the motor augmentation equipment still needs further investigation. This study focused on the resting-state brain functional reorganization during longitudinal brain-computer interface (BCI)-controlled SRF training in using the fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (fALFF), regional homogeneity (ReHo), and degree centrality (DC) metrics. Ten right-handed subjects were enrolled for 4 weeks of BCI-controlled SRF training. The behavioral data and the neurological changes were recorded at baseline, training for 2 weeks, training for 4 weeks immediately after, and 2 weeks after the end of training. One-way repeated-measure ANOVA was used to investigate long-term motor improvement [", 
    "abstract": "Migraine is a common headache disorder. Many studies have used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to explore the possible pathogenesis of migraine, but they have not reached consistent conclusions and lack rigorous multiple comparison correction. Thus, this study investigates the mechanisms of migraine development from the perspective of altered functional connectivity (FC) in brain regions by using data-driven and regions of interest (ROI)-based approaches.\nResting-state functional MRI data were collected from 30 patients with migraine and 40 healthy controls (HCs) matched for age, gender, and years of education. For the data-driven method, we used a voxel-mirrored homotopic connectivity (VMHC) approach to compare the FC between the patients and HCs. For the ROI-based method, significant differences in VMHC maps between the patients and HCs were defined as ROI. The seed-based approach further revealed significant differences in FC between the seeds and the other brain regions. Furthermore, the correlations between abnormal FC and clinical characteristics of patients were investigated. A rigorous multiple comparison correction was used with false discovery rate and permutation test (5000 times).\nIn comparison with the controls group, patients showed enhanced VMHC in the bilateral thalamus. We also observed enhanced FC between the left thalamus and the left superior frontal gyrus, and increased FC between the right thalamus and the left middle frontal gyrus (Brodmann area\u00a045 and Brodmann area\u00a08) in patients. Further analysis showed that the FC values in the left superior frontal gyrus and left middle frontal gyrus were negatively corrected with visual analogue scale scores or attack times for headaches.\nPatients with migraine showed altered VMHC in the bilateral thalamus, and abnormal FC of bilateral thalamus and other brain regions. The abnormalities in thalamic FC are a likely mechanism for the development of migraine.\nChinese Clinical Trial Registry, ChiCTR2000033995. Registered on 20 June 2020.", 
    "abstract": "Somatic depression (SD) is different from non-somatic depression (NSD), and insular subregions have been associated with somatic symptoms. However, the pattern of damage in the insular subregions in SD remains unclear. The aim of this study was to use functional connectivity (FC) analyses to explore the bilateral ventral anterior insula (vAI), bilateral dorsal anterior insula (dAI), and bilateral posterior insula (PI) brain circuits in SD patients.\nThe study included 28 SD patients, 30 NSD patients, and 30 matched healthy control (HC) subjects. All participants underwent 3.0\u2009T resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging. FC analyses were used to explore synchronization between insular subregions and the whole brain in the context of depression with somatic symptoms. Pearson correlation analyses were performed to assess relationships between FC values in brain regions showing significant differences and the total and factor scores on the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD\nCompared with the NSD group, the SD group showed significantly decreased FC between the left vAI and the right rectus gyrus, right fusiform gyrus, and right angular gyrus; between the right vAI and the right middle cingulate cortex, right precuneus, and right superior frontal gyrus; between the left dAI and the left fusiform gyrus; and between the right dAI and the left postcentral gyrus. Relative to the NSD group, the SD group exhibited increased FC between the left dAI and the left fusiform gyrus. There were no differences in FC between bilateral PI and any brain regions among the SD, NSD, and HC groups. Within the SD group, FC values between the left vAI and right rectus gyrus were positively correlated with cognitive impairment scores on the HAMD\nAberrant FC between the anterior insula and the frontal and limbic cortices may be one possible mechanism underlying SD.", 
    "abstract": "This review synthesizes relations between mindfulness and resting-state fMRI functional connectivity of brain networks. Mindfulness is characterized by present-moment awareness and experiential acceptance, and relies on attention control, self-awareness, and emotion regulation. We integrate studies of functional connectivity and (1) trait mindfulness and (2) mindfulness meditation interventions. Mindfulness is related to functional connectivity in the default mode (DMN), frontoparietal (FPN), and salience (SN) networks. Specifically, mindfulness-mediated functional connectivity changes include (1) increased connectivity between posterior cingulate cortex (DMN) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (FPN), which may relate to attention control; (2) decreased connectivity between cuneus and SN, which may relate to self-awareness; (3) increased connectivity between rostral anterior cingulate cortex region and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMN) and decreased connectivity between rostral anterior cingulate cortex region and amygdala region, both of which may relate to emotion regulation; and lastly, (4) increased connectivity between dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (SN) and anterior insula (SN) which may relate to pain relief. While further study of mindfulness is needed, neural signatures of mindfulness are emerging.", 
    "abstract": "Resting-state functional MRI has been increasingly implemented in imaging protocols for the study of functional connectivity in glioma patients as a sequence able to capture the activity of brain networks and to investigate their properties without requiring the patients' cooperation. The present review aims at describing the most recent results obtained through the analysis of resting-state fMRI data in different contexts of interest for brain gliomas: the identification and localization of functional networks, the characterization of altered functional connectivity, and the evaluation of functional plasticity in relation to the resection of the glioma. An analysis of the literature showed that significant and promising results could be achieved through this technique in all the aspects under investigation. Nevertheless, there is room for improvement, especially in terms of stability and generalizability of the outcomes. Further research should be conducted on homogeneous samples of glioma patients and at fixed time points to reduce the considerable variability in the results obtained across and within studies. Future works should also aim at establishing robust metrics for the assessment of the disruption of functional connectivity and its recovery at the single-subject level.", 
    "abstract": "Increasing evidence has proved that chronic ankle instability (CAI) is highly related to the central nervous system (CNS). However, it is still unclear about the inherent cerebral activity among the CAI patients.\nTo investigate the differences of intrinsic functional cerebral activity between the CAI patients and healthy controls (HCs) and further explore its correlation with clinical measurement in CAI patients.\nA total of 25 CAI patients and 39 HCs were enrolled in this study. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) was used to detect spontaneous cerebral activity. The metrics of amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), fractional ALFF (fALFF), and regional homogeneity (ReHo) of the two groups were compared by two-sample \nCompared with HCs, CAI patients showed higher ALFF and ReHo values in the right postcentral gyrus, the right precentral gyrus, and the right middle frontal gyrus, while lower fALFF values in the orbital-frontal cortex (OFC, \nThe CAI patients exhibited enhanced and more coherent regional inherent neuronal activity within the sensorimotor network while lower regional inherent activity in pain/emotion modulation related region. In addition, the information exchanges were stronger within the sensorimotor network while weaker between distant interhemispheric regions. Besides, the increased inherent activity in the right middle frontal gyrus was related to clinical severity. These findings may provide insights into the pathophysiological alteration in CNS among CAI patients.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Abnormal psychological processing in the central nervous system has been found in Crohn's disease (CD) patients. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance images of 57 inactive and 58 active CD patients, and 92 healthy controls (HC) were obtained. The psychological assessment used a psychological questionnaire that was collected within 1 week before functional MRI examination. We investigated the neural basis of CD patients and the correlation among regional homogeneity (ReHo), clinical features and psychological assessment scores. We found that more severe psychological assessment disorder scores were observed in the active CD group than in the inactive CD group and HC group (", 
    "abstract": "Functional connectivity of the primary visual cortex was explored with resting functional magnetic resonance imaging among adults with strabismus and amblyopia and healthy controls. We used the two-sample test and receiver operating characteristic curves to investigate the differences in mean functional connectivity values between the groups with strabismus and amblyopia and healthy controls. Compared with healthy controls, functional connectivity values in the left Brodmann areas 17, including bilateral lingual/angular gyri, were reduced in groups with strabismus and amblyopia. Moreover, functional connectivity values in the right Brodmann area 17, including left cuneus, right inferior occipital gyrus, and left inferior parietal lobule, were reduced in adults with strabismus and amblyopia. Our findings indicate that functional connectivity abnormalities exist between the primary visual cortex and other regions. This may be the basis of the pathological mechanism of visual dysfunction and stereovision disorders in adults with strabismus and amblyopia.", 
    "abstract": "The blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD)-based resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) has been widely used as a non-invasive tool to map brain-wide connectivity architecture. However, the neural basis underpinning the resting-state BOLD signal remains elusive. In this study, we combined simultaneous calcium-based fiber photometry with rsfMRI in awake animals to examine the relationship of the BOLD signal and spiking activity at the resting state. We observed robust couplings between calcium and BOLD signals in the dorsal hippocampus as well as other distributed areas in the default mode network (DMN), suggesting that the calcium measurement can reliably predict the rsfMRI signal. In addition, using the calcium signal recorded as the ground truth, we assessed the impacts of different rsfMRI data preprocessing pipelines on functional connectivity mapping. Overall, our results provide important evidence suggesting that spiking activity measured by the calcium signal plays a key role in the neural mechanism of resting-state BOLD signal.", 
    "abstract": "The striatum receives dense dopaminergic projections, making it a key region of the dopaminergic system. Its dysfunction has been implicated in various conditions including Parkinson's disease (PD) and substance use disorder. However, the investigation of dopamine-specific functioning in humans is problematic as current MRI approaches are unable to differentiate between dopaminergic and other projections. Here, we demonstrate that 'connectopic mapping' - a novel approach for characterizing fine-grained, overlapping modes of functional connectivity - can be used to map dopaminergic projections in striatum. We applied connectopic mapping to resting-state functional MRI data of the Human Connectome Project (population cohort; N = 839) and selected the second-order striatal connectivity mode for further analyses. We first validated its specificity to dopaminergic projections by demonstrating a high spatial correlation (", 
    "abstract": "It is always challenging to correctly differentiate between minimally conscious state (MCS) and vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (VS/UWS) among disorders of consciousness (DOC) patients. However, the underlying neural mechanisms of awareness identification remain incompletely understood.\nUsing regional homogeneity (ReHo) analysis, we evaluated how regional connectivity of brain regions is disrupted in MCS and VS/UWS patients. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging was conducted in 14 MCS patients, 25 VS/UWS patients, and 30 age-matched healthy individuals.\nWe found that MCS and VS/UWS patients demonstrated DOC-dependent reduced ReHo within widespread brain regions including posterior cingulate cortices (PCC), medial prefrontal cortices (mPFC), and bilateral fronto-parieto-temporal cortices and showed increased ReHo in limbic structures. Moreover, a positive correlation between Coma Recovery Scale-Revised (CRS-R) total scores and reduced ReHo in the left precuneus was observed in VS/UWS patients, despite the linear trend was not found in MCS patients. In addition, ReHo were also observed reduced in three mainly intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs), including default mode network (DMN), executive control network (ECN), and salience network (SN). Notably, as the clinical symptoms of consciousness disorders worsen from MCS to VS/UWS, ReHo in dorsal DMN, left ECN, and posterior SN became significantly reduced.\nThese findings make a further understanding of the underlying neural mechanism of regional connectivity among DOC patients and provide additional neuroimaging-based biomarkers for the clinical diagnosis of MCS and VS/UWS patients.", 
    "abstract": "In glaucoma participants, both structural and functional brain changes have been observed, but we still have insufficient understanding of how these changes also affect the integrity of cortical functional networks, and how these changes relate to visual function. This is relevant, as functional network integrity may affect the applicability of future treatments, as well as the options for rehabilitation or training. Here, we compare global and local functional connectivity in local and global brain networks between glaucoma and control participants. Moreover, we study the relationship between functional connectivity and visual field (VF) loss. For our study, 20 subjects with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 24 age-similar healthy participants were recruited to undergo an ophthalmic assessment followed by two resting-state (RS) (f)MRI scans. For each scan and for each group, the ROIs with eigenvector centrality (EC) values higher than the 95th percentile were considered the most central brain regions (\"hubs\"). Hubs for which we found a significant difference in EC in both scans between glaucoma and healthy participants were considered to provide evidence for network changes. In addition, we tested the notion that a brain region's hub function in POAG might relate to the severity of a participant's VF defect, irrespective of which eye contributed mostly to this. To determine this, for each participant, eye-independent scores were derived for: (1) sensitivity of the worse eye - indicating disease severity, (2) sensitivity of both eyes combined - with one eye potentially compensating for loss in the other, or (3) difference in eye sensitivity - potentially requiring additional network interactions. By correlating each of these VF scores and the EC values, we assessed whether VF defects could be associated with centrality alterations in POAG. Our results show that no functional connectivity disruptions were found at the global brain level in POAG participants. This indicates that in glaucoma global brain network communication is preserved. Furthermore, for the Lingual Gyrus, identified as a brain hub, we found a positive correlation between the EC value and the VF sensitivity of both eyes combined. The fact that reduced local network functioning is associated with reduced binocular VF sensitivity suggests the presence of local brain reorganization that has a bearing on functional visual abilities.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to determine if differences in functional connectivity strength (FCS) with age were confounded by vascular parameters including resting cerebral blood flow (CBF", 
    "abstract": "Torture has profound psychological and physiological consequences for survivors. While some brain structures and functions appear altered in torture survivors, it is unclear how torture exposure influences functional connectivity within and between core intrinsic brain networks. In this study, 37 torture survivors (TS) and 62 non-torture survivors (NTS) participated in a resting-state fMRI scan. Data-driven independent components analysis identified active intrinsic networks. Group differences in functional connectivity in the default mode network (DMN), salience network (SN) and central executive network (CEN) of the triple network model, as well any prefrontal network, were examined while controlling for PTSD symptoms and exposure to other potentially traumatic events. The analysis identified 25 networks; eight comprised our networks of interest. Within-network group differences were observed in the left CEN (lCEN), where the TS group showed less spectral power in the low-frequency band. Differential internetwork dynamic connectivity patterns were observed, where the TS group showed stronger positive coupling between the lCEN and anterior dorsomedial and ventromedial DMN, and stronger negative coupling between a lateral frontal network and the lCEN and anterior dorsomedial DMN (when contrasted with the NTS group). Group differences were not attributed to torture severity or dissociative symptoms. Torture survivors showed disrupted dynamic functional connectivity between a laterally-aligned lCEN that serves top-down control functions over external processes and the midline DMN that underpins internal self-referential processes, which may be an adaptive response to mitigate the worst effects of the torture experience. This study provides a critical step in mapping the neural signature of torture exposure to guide treatment development and selection.", 
    "abstract": "Despite remarkable advances in mapping the functional connectivity of the cortex, the functional connectivity of subcortical regions is understudied in living humans. This is the case for brainstem nuclei that control vital processes, such as autonomic, limbic, nociceptive and sensory functions. This is because of the lack of precise brainstem nuclei localization, of adequate sensitivity and resolution in the deepest brain regions, as well as of optimized processing for the brainstem. To close the gap between the cortex and the brainstem, on 20 healthy subjects, we computed a correlation-based functional connectome of 15 brainstem nuclei involved in autonomic, limbic, nociceptive, and sensory function (superior and inferior colliculi, ventral tegmental area-parabrachial pigmented nucleus complex, microcellular tegmental nucleus-prabigeminal nucleus complex, lateral and medial parabrachial nuclei, vestibular and superior olivary complex, superior and inferior medullary reticular formation, viscerosensory motor nucleus, raphe magnus, pallidus, and obscurus, and parvicellular reticular nucleus - alpha part) with the rest of the brain. Specifically, we exploited 1.1mm isotropic resolution 7 Tesla resting-state fMRI, ad-hoc coregistration and physiological noise correction strategies, and a recently developed probabilistic template of brainstem nuclei. Further, we used 2.5mm isotropic resolution resting-state fMRI data acquired on a 3 Tesla scanner to assess the translatability of our results to conventional datasets. We report highly consistent correlation coefficients across subjects, confirming available literature on autonomic, limbic, nociceptive and sensory pathways, as well as high interconnectivity within the central autonomic network and the vestibular network. Interestingly, our results showed evidence of vestibulo-autonomic interactions in line with previous work. Comparison of 7 Tesla and 3 Tesla findings showed high translatability of results to conventional settings for brainstem-cortical connectivity and good yet weaker translatability for brainstem-brainstem connectivity. The brainstem functional connectome might bring new insight in the understanding of autonomic, limbic, nociceptive and sensory function in health and disease.", 
    "abstract": "Changes in the brain networks of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) have been extensively explored, but the biological mechanisms underlying these alterations remain unclear. Here, we aim to identify changes in brain networks in patients with TLE and provide an accurate algorithm for distinguishing these patients from normal controls (NC) with graph-theoretical approach and advanced machine learning methods.\nDirected network construction was applied to resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data from 55 subjects (23 TLE patients and 32 NC), and 13 directed graph measures were calculated. Two-sample t-test selected features were used as inputs to a support vector machine (SVM). The leave-one-out cross-validation method was used in measuring classification performance.\nAn accuracy of 94.55% (sensitivity\u00a0=\u00a091.30%, f1-score\u00a0=\u00a093.33%, Cohen's kappa\u00a0=\u00a00.9345) was achieved for the classification of TLE patients and NC with optimal features and SVM classifier. According to the results of the two-sample t-test results, TLE disease impacted several areas of the brain, including the temporal, parietal, occipital, posterior cingulate, angular gyrus, superior frontal gyrus, and cerebellum regions in degree centrality, flow coefficient and node efficiency. There was a significant correlation between performance IQ and the flow coefficient of the left posterior cerebellum lobe in TLE group.\nThe study confirmed the validity of Granger causality analysis in constructing directed brain networks. The proposed machine learning approach based on directed graph measures may serve as a biomarker for the diagnosis of TLE to assist in the early diagnosis of TLE patients and intervention in treatment plans.", 
    "abstract": "Individuals can be characterized in a population according to their brain measurements and activity, given the inter-subject variability in brain anatomy, structure-function relationships, or life experience. Many neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the potential of functional network connectivity patterns estimated from resting functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to discriminate groups and predict information about individual subjects. However, the predictive signal present in the spatial heterogeneity of brain connectivity networks is yet to be extensively studied. In this study, we investigate, for the first time, the use of pairwise-relationships between resting-state independent spatial maps to characterize individuals. To do this, we develop a deep Siamese framework comprising three-dimensional convolution neural networks for contrastive learning based on individual-level spatial maps estimated via a fully automated fMRI independent component analysis approach. The proposed framework evaluates whether pairs of spatial networks (e.g., visual network and auditory network) are capable of subject identification and assesses the spatial variability in different network pairs' predictive power in an extensive whole-brain analysis. Our analysis on nearly 12,000 unaffected individuals from the UK Biobank study demonstrates that the proposed approach can discriminate subjects with an accuracy of up to 88% for a single network pair on the test set (best model, after several runs), and 82% average accuracy at the subcortical domain level, notably the highest average domain level accuracy attained. Further investigation of our network's learned features revealed a higher spatial variability in predictive accuracy among younger brains and significantly higher discriminative power among males. In sum, the relationship among spatial networks appears to be both informative and discriminative of individuals and should be studied further as putative brain-based biomarkers.", 
    "abstract": "In recent years, interest has been growing in dynamic characteristic of brain signals from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). Synchrony and metastability, as neurodynamic indexes, are considered as one of methods for analyzing dynamic characteristics. Although much research has studied the analysis of neurodynamic indices, few have investigated its reliability. In this paper, the datasets from the Human Connectome Project have been used to explore the test-retest reliabilities of synchrony and metastability from multiple angles through intra-class correlation (ICC). The results showed that both of these indexes had fair test-retest reliability, but they are strongly affected by the field strength, the spatial resolution, and scanning interval, less affected by the temporal resolution. Denoising processing can help improve their ICC values. In addition, the reliability of neurodynamic indexes was affected by the node definition strategy, but these effects were not apparent. In particular, by comparing the test-retest reliability of different resting-state networks, we found that synchrony of different networks was basically stable, but the metastability varied considerably. Among these, DMN and LIM had a relatively higher test-retest reliability of metastability than other networks. This paper provides a methodological reference for exploring the brain dynamic neural activity by using synchrony and metastability in fMRI signals.", 
    "abstract": "This study used a voxel-wise degree centrality (DC) method to evaluate differences in brain activity between patients with non-neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (non-NP-SLE) and healthy controls (HCs) and to assess the relationship of DC values with clinical and neuropsychological data. Thirty-two female patients with non-NP-SLE and 28 well-matched HCs were recruited and underwent resting-state functional MRI. Differences in spontaneous brain activity between the two groups were evaluated using a DC method. Correlations between the altered DC values of specific brain regions and clinical and neuropsychological data were explored using Spearman correlation analysis. Receiver operating characteristics curve analysis was applied to differences in DC values in specific brain regions to determine their value in distinguishing patients with non-NP-SLE from HCs. Compared with HCs, DC values in patients with non-NP-SLE were significantly lower in the bilateral postcentral gyrus and the orbital part of the left superior frontal gyrus (LFMO). DC values in some specific brain regions such as the bilateral postcentral gyrus and the LFMO correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination scores in both subject groups. In patients with non-NP-SLE, DC values of the right postcentral gyrus were positively correlated with IgA levels, and DC values of the LFMO were positively correlated with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index 2000 scores, as well as IgA levels. Receiver operating characteristics curve analysis revealed that the DC values of specific brain regions can be used to differentiate patients with non-NP-SLE from HCs.", 
    "abstract": "Psilocybin (a serotonin 2A, or 5-HT", 
    "abstract": "Previous invasive studies indicate that human neocortical graymatter contains cytoarchitectonically distinct layers, with notable differences in their structural connectivity with the rest of the brain. Given recent improvements in the spatial resolution of anatomical and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we hypothesize that resting state functional connectivity (FC) derived from fMRI is sensitive to layer-specific thalamo-cortical and cortico-cortical microcircuits. Using sub-millimeter resting state fMRI data obtained at 7\u00a0T, we found that: (1) FC between the entire thalamus and cortical layers I and VI was significantly stronger than between the thalamus and other layers. Furthermore, FC between somatosensory thalamus (ventral posterolateral nucleus, VPL) and layers IV, VI of the primary somatosensory cortex were stronger than with other layers; (2) Inter-hemispheric cortico-cortical FC between homologous regions in superficial layers (layers I-III) was stronger compared to deep layers (layers V-VI). These findings are in agreement with structural connections inferred from previous invasive studies that showed that: (i) M-type neurons in the entire thalamus project to layer-I; (ii) Pyramidal neurons in layer-VI target all thalamic nuclei, (iii) C-type neurons in the VPL project to layer-IV and receive inputs from layer-VI of the primary somatosensory cortex, and (iv) 80% of collosal projecting neurons between homologous cortical regions connect superficial layers. Our results demonstrate for the first time that resting state fMRI is sensitive to structural connections between cortical layers (previously inferred through invasive studies), specifically in thalamo-cortical and cortico-cortical networks.", 
    "abstract": "Neuromyelitis Optica, which is known as NMO, is a demyelination syndrome and inflammatory condition of the central nervous system that affects the optic nerves. Since structural imaging approaches cannot adequately describe the brain disorders in patients with NMO, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used. Resting-state fMRI was performed on 25 healthy subjects and 26 NMO patients. After preprocessing the data, the time series belonging to the regions of the middle frontal gyrus (MFG), inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), precuneus (PRE), thalamus (THA), and middle temporal gyrus (MTG) were extracted as components of the corticothalamic circuit. The obtained time series were statistically analyzed as the input of dynamic causal modeling (DCM) in order to evaluate the effective connectivity within the corticothalamic circuit. The statistical analyses showed that the mean of effective connectivity power was significantly higher in the healthy subjects than in the NMO patients. For the healthy subjects, there was no significant difference in effective connectivity power between the two groups of males and females at the significance level of 0.05. In the NMO patients, there was a significant difference between the effective connectivity levels of the male and female groups only for IFG\u00a0\u2192\u00a0MFG, in which it was greater in males than in females. The results of our studies showed that resting-state fMRI could exhibit the difference between healthy and NMO subjects.", 
    "abstract": "Brainstem nuclei play a pivotal role in many functions, such as arousal and motor control. Nevertheless, the connectivity of arousal and motor brainstem nuclei is understudied in living humans due to the limited sensitivity and spatial resolution of conventional imaging, and to the lack of atlases of these deep tiny regions of the brain. For a holistic comprehension of sleep, arousal and associated motor processes, we investigated in 20 healthy subjects the resting-state functional connectivity of 18 arousal and motor brainstem nuclei in living humans. To do so, we used high spatial-resolution 7 Tesla resting-state fMRI, as well as a recently developed in-vivo probabilistic atlas of these nuclei in stereotactic space. Further, we verified the translatability of our brainstem connectome approach to conventional (e.g. 3 Tesla) fMRI. Arousal brainstem nuclei displayed high interconnectivity, as well as connectivity to the thalamus, hypothalamus, basal forebrain and frontal cortex, in line with animal studies and as expected for arousal regions. Motor brainstem nuclei showed expected connectivity to the cerebellum, basal ganglia and motor cortex, as well as high interconnectivity. Comparison of 3 Tesla to 7 Tesla connectivity results indicated good translatability of our brainstem connectome approach to conventional fMRI, especially for cortical and subcortical (non-brainstem) targets and to a lesser extent for brainstem targets. The functional connectome of 18 arousal and motor brainstem nuclei with the rest of the brain might provide a better understanding of arousal, sleep and accompanying motor functions in living humans in health and disease.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) was used to investigate the characteristics of functional connectivity of brain networks in patients with post-stroke global aphasia (PGA).\nPGA patients hospitalized in Wuxi Tongren Rehabilitation Hospital during their subacute stage were selected as a case group, and healthy volunteers with matching age, sex, and education level were selected as healthy controls (HCs). rs-fMRI scans were performed to compare the differences of functional connectivity in resting-state networks (RSNs) and in the whole brain between the two groups.\nA total of 11 patients with PGA and 11 HCs were included in this study. PGA patients showed decreased inter-hemispheric connectivity of homologs within the sensorimotor network (SMN), salience network, and language network. In the analysis of the whole brain functional connections, PGA patients exhibited both inter-hemispheric and intra-hemispheric hypoconnectivity when compared with HCs. However, they exhibited some stronger connections than HCs between the language network and cerebellar network, which may indicate compensatory mechanisms.\nUsing rs-fMRI to research differences in the functional connectivity of brain networks in post-stroke global aphasia will help us further understand it's neurological mechanism and provide an important basis for the accurate selection of therapeutic targets in the future to promote better recovery of language function.", 
    "abstract": "Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) is recognized as an effective and mainstream alternative treatment for heroin addiction. However, the effect of long-term MMT on the local and global brain activity of heroin-dependent individuals during resting state remains unknown. Twenty-five heroin-dependent individuals under MMT, 26 heroin-dependent individuals after short-term abstinence (HA) and 42 healthy controls (HC) were included in the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging study. The craving before and after heroin cue exposure were evaluated among HA and MMT subjects. The difference in craving, regional homogeneity (ReHo) and related functional connectivity were analyzed among the three groups. We found that the craving before and after heroin cue exposure of MMT group was significantly lower than that of HA group. Compared with HA group, the MMT group showed higher ReHo value in the right orbitofrontal cortex and bilateral posterior central cortex. No significant difference in global brain connectivity based on differential ReHo regions was found among the three groups. This study demonstrated the long-term MMT could improve the local activity of executive control and somatosensory brain regions in heroin-dependent individuals. It suggested that MMT might be beneficial to restoring executive control and somatosensory function in the direction towards that of healthy controls.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies have demonstrated that BOLD signals in gray matter in resting-state functional MRI (RSfMRI) have variable time lags, representing apparent propagations of fMRI BOLD signals in gray matter. We complemented existing findings and explored the corresponding variations of signal latencies in white matter.\nWe used data from the Brain Genomics Superstruct Project, consisting of 1412 subjects (both sexes included) and divided the dataset into ten equal groups to study both the patterns and reproducibility of latency estimates within white matter. We constructed latency matrices by computing cross-covariances between voxel pairs. We also applied a clustering analysis to identify functional networks within white matter, based on which latency analysis was also performed to investigate lead/lag relationship at network level. A dataset consisting of various sensory states (eyes closed, eyes open and eyes open with fixation) was also included to examine the relationship between latency structure and different states.\nProjections of voxel latencies from the latency matrices were highly correlated (average Pearson correlation coefficient\u00a0=\u00a00.89) across the subgroups, confirming the reproducibility and structure of signal lags in white matter. Analysis of latencies within and between networks revealed a similar pattern of inter- and intra-network communication to that reported for gray matter. Moreover, a dominant direction, from inferior to superior regions, of BOLD signal propagation was revealed by higher resolution clustering. The variations of lag structure within white matter are associated with different sensory states.\nThese findings provide additional insight into the character and roles of white matter BOLD signals in brain functions.", 
    "abstract": "To study the brain mechanism and behavioral performance of cognitive functional differences between children with primary nocturnal enuresis (PNE) of different genders by resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) and attention behavior research.\nAll the children participating the test were 5-11 years old including 32 PNE children (15 boys and 17 girls) and 35 normal children (16 boys and 19 girls). They respectively went through MRI scan and the data were analyzed by the method of amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF). Then continuous performance test (CPT) was done and the correct number and reaction time were recorded. The between-group variance was analyzed by two sample t-test.\n1. fMRI: There were no obviously different brain regions of ALFF between normal boys and girls. The brain regions which had obvious differences of ALFF between PNE boys and girls were right middle frontal gyrus, left inferior parietal lobule and right posterior cerbellar lobe. And the group of PNE boys were higher than PNE girls on all the three regions (P < 0.05). 2. CPT: The reaction time of PNE and normal boys was both lower than those of girls, but there were no obvious differences on the correct number.\nThis study found that girls with PNE performed more obvious damages on attention, executive function and working memory than boys which might be related to the fact that girls were more likely to suffer from confidence impairment due to enuresis leading to cognitive dysfunctions. The method of ALFF based on resting-state fMRI provided a new approach for studying the cognitive characteristics of PNE children.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "It has been proposed that a form of cortical reorganization (changes in functional connectivity between brain areas) can be assessed with resting-state (rs) functional MRI (fMRI). Here, we report a longitudinal data set collected from 19 patients with subcortical stroke and 11 controls. Patients were imaged up to five times over 1 year. We found no evidence, using rs-fMRI, for longitudinal poststroke cortical connectivity changes despite substantial behavioral recovery. These results could be construed as questioning the value of resting-state imaging. Here, we argue instead that they are consistent with other emerging reasons to challenge the idea of motor-recovery-related cortical reorganization poststroke when conceived of as changes in connectivity between cortical areas.", 
    "abstract": "Common and distinct neural bases of Schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BP) have been explored using resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) functional connectivity (FC). However, fMRI is an indirect measure of neural activity, which is a convolution of the hemodynamic response function (HRF) and latent neural activity. The HRF, which models neurovascular coupling, varies across the brain within and across individuals, and is altered in many psychiatric disorders. Given this background, this study had three aims: quantifying HRF aberrations in SZ and BP, measuring the impact of such HRF aberrations on FC group differences, and exploring the genetic basis of HRF aberrations. We estimated voxel-level HRFs by deconvolving rs-fMRI data obtained from SZ (N = 38), BP (N = 19), and matched healthy controls (N = 35). We identified HRF group differences (P < .05, FDR corrected) in many regions previously implicated in SZ/BP, with mediodorsal, habenular, and central lateral nuclei of the thalamus exhibiting HRF differences in all pairwise group comparisons. Thalamus seed-based FC analysis revealed that ignoring HRF variability results in false-positive and false-negative FC group differences, especially in insula, superior frontal, and lingual gyri. HRF was associated with DRD2 gene expression (P < .05, 1.62 < |Z| < 2.0), as well as with medication dose (P < .05, 1.75 < |Z| < 3.25). In this first study to report HRF aberrations in SZ and BP, we report the possible modulatory effect of dopaminergic signalling on HRF, and the impact that HRF variability can have on FC studies in clinical samples. To mitigate the impact of HRF variability on FC group differences, we suggest deconvolution during data preprocessing.", 
    "abstract": "The importance of motion correction when processing resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data is well-established in adult cohorts. This includes adjustments based on self-limited, large amplitude subject head motion, as well as factitious rhythmic motion induced by respiration. In adults, such respiration artifact can be effectively removed by applying a notch filter to the motion trace, resulting in higher amounts of data retained after frame censoring (e.g., \"scrubbing\") and more reliable correlation values. Due to the unique physiological and behavioral characteristics of infants and toddlers, rs-fMRI processing pipelines, including methods to identify and remove colored noise due to subject motion, must be appropriately modified to accurately reflect true neuronal signal. These younger cohorts are characterized by higher respiration rates and lower-amplitude head movements than adults; thus, the presence and significance of comparable respiratory artifact and the subsequent necessity of applying similar techniques remain unknown. Herein, we identify and characterize the consistent presence of respiratory artifact in rs-fMRI data collected during natural sleep in infants and toddlers across two independent cohorts (aged 8-24 months) analyzed using different pipelines. We further demonstrate how removing this artifact using an age-specific notch filter allows for both improved data quality and data retention in measured results. Importantly, this work reveals the critical need to identify and address respiratory-driven head motion in fMRI data acquired in young populations through the use of age-specific motion filters as a mechanism to optimize the accuracy of measured results in this population.", 
    "abstract": "To assess changed spontaneous brain activity in hyperthyroid exophthalmos (HE) patients by the amplitude of the low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) method, and to analyze the correlation between brain activity and ALFF values in these patients.\nTotally 18 HE and 18 hyperthyroid non-exophthalmos (HNE) patients were enrolled. The participants were tested by resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to classify the ALFF values of the study population. Pearson's correlation analysis was utilized to evaluate the relationship between the ALFF values obtained from different brain areas and clinical manifestations.\nContrary to HNE patients, we observed lower ALFF values in the left calcarine fissure and surrounding cortex (LCFSC) in HE patients. In the ROC curve analysis of the LCFSC, the area under the curve reflected a high degree of accuracy. In addition, there was positive correlation between mean ALFF values of the LCFSC and the best-corrected visual acuity of the affected eyes.\nThe study displays abnormal brain activity in LCFSC in patients with HE, which might suggest pathological mechanism of visual impairment of HE patients.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the effects of combat sports on cerebellar function in adolescents based on resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI).\nRs-fMRI data were acquired from the combat sports (CS) group (\nNone of these participants displayed intracranial lesions on conventional MRI and microhemorrhages on SWI. Compared with the HC group, the CS group showed decreased ALFF and ReHo in the bilateral cerebellum, mainly located in the inferior regions of the cerebellum (Cerebellum_8, Cerebellum_9, Cerebellum_7b, and Cerebellum_Crus2). While increased FC was found within the cerebellar network, mainly located in the superior regions near the midline (bilateral Cerebellum_6, Cerebellum_Crus1_R, and Vermis_6). There is no internetwork FC change between the CEN and other networks.\nThis study confirmed extensive effects of combat sports on cerebellar rs-fMRI in adolescents, which could enhance the understanding of cerebellar regulatory mechanism under combat conditions, and provide additional information about cerebellar protective inhibition and compensatory adaptation.\nAdolescent combat participants are an ideal model to study training-induced brain plasticity and vulnerability. Relative to task-related fMRI, rs-fMRI can bring more information about cerebellar regulation and explain the Central Governor Model more comprehensively.", 
    "abstract": "Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a noninvasive neuromodulation technique that can modulate cortical excitability and behavioral performance. However, its effects on spontaneous low-frequency fluctuations of brain activity are still poorly understood. Here, we systematically investigated the frontopolar tDCS effects on resting-state brain activity and connectivity. Twelve healthy participants were recruited and received anode, cathode, and sham stimulation in a randomized order. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed before and after stimulation. Functional connectivity was calculated to examine tDCS effects within and beyond the frontopolar network. To assess the frequency-dependent changes of brain activity, fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) was computed in the slow-4 (0.027-0.073\u00a0Hz) and slow-5 (0.01-0.027\u00a0Hz) bands. The results showed anodal tDCS-induced widespread connectivity reduction within and beyond the frontopolar network. Regardless of tDCS polarity, stimulation effect on fALFF was significantly larger in slow-5 band compared with the slow-4. Notably, anodal tDCS-induced connectivity changes were associated with pre-tDCS fALFF in slow-4 band, showing positive correlations in the frontal regions and negative correlations in the temporal regions. Our findings imply that tDCS-induced brain alterations may be frequency-dependent, and pre-tDCS regional brain activity could be used to predict post-tDCS connectivity changes.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Dynamic properties of resting-state functional connectivity (FC) provide rich information on brain-behavior relationships. Dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) has been used as a method to characterize FC dynamics. However, it remains unclear whether dynamic modes (DMs), spatial-temporal coherent patterns computed by DMD, provide information about individual behavioral differences. This study established a methodological approach to predict individual differences in behavior using DMs. Furthermore, we investigated the contribution of DMs within each of seven specific frequency bands (0-0.1,...,0.6-0.7\u00a0Hz) for prediction. To validate our approach, we tested whether each of 59 behavioral measures could be predicted by performing multivariate pattern analysis on a Gram matrix, which was created using subject-specific DMs computed from resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data of individuals. DMD successfully predicted behavior and outperformed temporal and spatial independent component analysis, which is the conventional data decomposition method for extracting spatial activity patterns. Most of the behavioral measures that were predicted with significant accuracy in a permutation test were related to cognition. We found that DMs within frequency bands <0.2\u00a0Hz primarily contributed to prediction and had spatial structures similar to several common resting-state networks. Our results indicate that DMD is efficient in extracting spatiotemporal features from rs-fMRI data.", 
    "abstract": "Chronic nonspecific low back pain (cNLBP) is a leading contributor to disease burden worldwide that is difficult to treat due to its nonspecific aetiology and complexity. The amygdala is a complex of structurally and functionally heterogeneous nuclei that serve as a key neural substrate for the interactions between pain and negative affective states. However, whether the functions of amygdalar subcomponents are differentially altered in cNLBP remains unknown. Little attention has focused on effective connectivity of the amygdala with the cortex in cNLBP. In this study, thirty-three patients with cNLBP and 33 healthy controls (HCs) were included. Resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) and effective connectivity of the amygdala and its subregions were examined. Our results showed that the patient group exhibited significantly greater rsFC between the left amygdala and left dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), which was negatively correlated with pain intensity ratings. Subregional analyses suggested a difference located at the superficial nuclei of the amygdala. Dynamic causal modelling revealed significantly lower effective connectivity from the left amygdala to the dorsal mPFC in patients with cNLBP than in HCs. Both groups exhibited stronger effective connectivity from the left amygdala to the right amygdala. In summary, these findings not only suggested altered rsFC of the amygdala-mPFC pathway in cNLBP but also implicated an abnormal direction of information processing between the amygdala and mPFC in these patients. Our results further highlight the involvement of the amygdala in the neuropathology of cNLBP.", 
    "abstract": "Modeling the rich, dynamic spatiotemporal variations captured by human brain functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data is a complicated task. Analysis at the brain's regional and connection levels provides more straightforward biological interpretation for fMRI data and has been instrumental in characterizing the brain thus far. Here we hypothesize that spatiotemporal learning directly in the four-dimensional (4D) fMRI voxel-time space could result in enhanced discriminative brain representations compared to widely used, pre-engineered fMRI temporal transformations, and brain regional and connection-level fMRI features. Motivated by this, we extend our recently reported structural MRI (sMRI) deep learning (DL) pipeline to additionally capture temporal variations, training the proposed 4D DL model end-to-end on preprocessed fMRI data. Results validate that the complex non-linear functions of the used deep spatiotemporal approach generate discriminative encodings for the studied learning task, outperforming both standard machine learning (SML) and DL methods on the widely used fMRI voxel/region/connection features, except the relatively simplistic measure of central tendency - the temporal mean of the fMRI data. Additionally, we identify the fMRI features for which DL significantly outperformed SML methods for voxel-level fMRI features. Overall, our results support the efficiency and potential of DL models trainable at the voxel level fMRI data and highlight the importance of developing auxiliary tools to facilitate interpretation of such flexible models.", 
    "abstract": "Abnormal default mode network (DMN) connectivity has been found in schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders. However, there are limited studies on early onset psychosis (EOP), and their results show lack of agreement. Here, we investigated within-network DMN connectivity in EOP compared to healthy controls (HC), and its relationship to clinical characteristics. A sample of 68 adolescent patients with EOP (mean age 16.53\u00a0\u00b1\u00a01.12 [SD] years, females 66%) and 95 HC (mean age 16.24\u00a0\u00b1\u00a01.50 [SD], females 60%) from two Scandinavian cohorts underwent resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI). A group independent component analysis (ICA) was performed to identify the DMN across all participants. Dual regression was used to estimate spatial maps reflecting each participant's DMN network, which were compared between EOP and HC using voxel-wise general linear models and permutation-based analyses. Subgroup analyses were performed within the patient group, to explore associations between diagnostic subcategories and current use of psychotropic medication in relation to connectivity strength. The analysis revealed significantly reduced DMN connectivity in EOP compared to HC in the posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, fusiform cortex, putamen, pallidum, amygdala, and insula. The subgroup analysis in the EOP group showed strongest deviations for affective psychosis, followed by other psychotic disorders and schizophrenia. There was no association between DMN connectivity strength and the current use of psychotropic medication. In conclusion, the findings demonstrate weaker DMN connectivity in adolescent patients with EOP compared to healthy peers, and differential effects across diagnostic subcategories, which may inform our understanding of underlying disease mechanisms in EOP.", 
    "abstract": "Cervical dystonia is the most frequent form of isolated focal dystonia. It is often associated with a dysfunction in brain networks, mostly affecting the basal ganglia, the cerebellum, and the somatosensory cortex. However, it is unclear if such a dysfunction is somato-specific to the brain areas containing the representation of the affected body part, and may thereby account for the focal expression of cervical dystonia. In this study, we investigated resting state functional connectivity in the areas within the motor cortex and the cerebellum containing affected and non-affected body representations in cervical dystonia patients.\nEighteen patients affected by cervical dystonia and 21 healthy controls had resting state fMRI. The functional connectivity between the motor cortex and the cerebellum, as well as their corresponding measures of gray matter volume and cortical thickness, were compared between groups. We performed seed-based analyses, selecting the different body representation areas in the precentral gyrus as seed regions, and all cerebellar areas as target regions.\nCompared to controls, patients exhibited increased functional connectivity between the bilateral trunk representation area of the motor cortex and the cerebellar vermis 6 and 7b, respectively. These functional abnormalities did not correlate with structural changes or symptom severity.\nOur findings indicate that the abnormal function of the motor network is somato-specific to the areas encompassing the neck representation. Functional abnormalities in discrete relevant areas of the motor network could thus contribute to the focal expression of CD.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Neuroimaging research seeks to identify biomarkers to improve the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), although clinical translation of findings remains distant. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (R-fMRI) is increasingly being used to characterize functional connectivity in the brain. Despite mixed results to date and multiple methodological challenges, dominant hypotheses implicate hyperconnectivity across brain networks in patients with ADHD, which could be the target of pharmacological treatments. We describe the experience and results of the Cl\u00ednica Universidad de Navarra (Spain) Metilfenidato (CUNMET) pilot study. CUNMET tested the feasibility of identifying R-fMRI markers of clinical response in children with ADHD undergoing naturalistical pharmacological treatments. We analyzed cross-sectional data from 56 patients with ADHD (18 treated with methylphenidate, 18 treated with lisdexamfetamine, and 20 treatment-naive patients). Standard preprocessing and statistical analyses with attention to control for head motion and correction for multiple comparisons were performed. The only results that survived correction were noted in contrasts of children who responded clinically to lisdexamfetamine after long-term treatment vs. treatment-naive patients. In these children, we observed stronger negative correlations (anticorrelations) across nodes in six brain networks, which is consistent with higher across-network functional segregation in patients treated with lisdexamfetamine, i.e., less inter-network interference than in treatment-naive patients. We also note the lessons learned, which could help those pursuing clinically relevant multidisciplinary research in ADHD en route to eventual personalized medicine. To advance reproducible open science, our report is accompanied with links providing access to our data and analytic scripts.", 
    "abstract": "Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most widespread mental disorders and can result in suicide. Suicidal ideation (SI) is strongly predictive of death by suicide, and electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is effective for MDD, especially in patients with SI. In the present study, we aimed to determine differences in resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) in 14 adolescents aged 12-17 with MDD and SI at baseline and after ECT. All participants were administered the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) and Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSSI) and received rs-fMRI scans at baseline and after ECT. Following ECT, the amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF) and fractional ALFF (fALFF) significantly decreased in the right precentral gyrus, and the degree centrality (DC) decreased in the left triangular part of the inferior frontal gyrus and increased in the left hippocampus. There were significant negative correlations between the change of HAMD (\u0394HAMD) and ALFF in the right precentral gyrus at baseline, and between the change of BSSI and the change of fALFF in the right precentral gyrus. The \u0394HAMD was positively correlated with the DC value of the left hippocampus at baseline. We suggest that these brain regions may be indicators of response to ECT in adolescents with MDD and SI.", 
    "abstract": "Insomnia is a common disorder that affects a vast number of patients; the hyperarousal theory of insomnia postulates that patients with insomnia are physiologically activated not only at nighttime but also during the daytime. We aimed to investigate the differences in the resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) of the thalamus with cortical areas between patients with insomnia disorder and healthy controls.\nAll participants completed clinical questionnaires and underwent portable polysomnography and resting-state fMRI.\nPatients in the insomnia group (\nWe consider these results on increased thalamocortical hyperactivity in brain areas related to sensory functions as providing evidence for the hyperarousal theory of insomnia.", 
    "abstract": null, 
