    "abstract": "The cocktail enzyme-assisted natural deep eutectic solvent (CE-NADES) has been tailored for the efficient extraction of capsaicin, the characteristic bioactive compound of chili peppers (CPs), in this study. The extraction procedures were optimized as choline chloride:1,4-butanediol (molar ratio 1:3), extraction temperature 38\u00a0\u00b0C, liquid-solid ratio 27.5\u00a0mL/g, water content 17.8\u00a0% (v/v) and extraction time 28\u00a0min, which yield was 9.91\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.13\u00a0mg/g. Moreover, CE pretreatment, by destroying plant structures, accelerated the release of capsaicin and consequently reduced the maximum decomposition temperature of CP residues to 260.5\u00a0\u00b0C after extraction. Meanwhile, more hydrogen bonds (134.72 at lifetime 3.98\u00a0ps) formed between capsaicin and NADES to facilitate the mass transfer. Larger solvent accessible surface area (210.09\u00a0nm", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Indium phosphide (InP) is an excellent material used in space electronic devices due to its direct band gap, high electron mobility, and high radiation resistance. Displacement damage in InP, such as vacancies, interstitials, and clusters, induced by cosmic particles can lead to the serious degradation of InP devices. In this work, the analytical bond order potential of InP is modified with the short-range repulsive potential, and the hybrid potential is verified for its reliability to simulate the atomic cascade collisions. By using molecular dynamics simulations with the modified potential, the primary damage defects evolution of InP caused by 1-10 keV primary knock-on atoms (PKAs) are studied. The effects of electronic energy loss are also considered in our research. The results show that the addition of electronic stopping loss reduces the number of point defects and weakens the damage regions. The reduction rates of point defects caused by electronic energy loss at the stable state are 32.2% and 27.4% for 10 keV In-PKA and P-PKA, respectively. In addition, the effects of electronic energy loss can lead to an extreme decline in the number of medium clusters, cause large clusters to vanish, and make the small clusters dominant damage products in InP. These findings are helpful to explain the radiation-induced damage mechanism of InP and expand the application of InP devices.", 
    "abstract": "Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is involved in aerosol particles and droplets excreted from a coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patient. Such aerosol particles or droplets including infectious virions can be attached on fomite, so fomite is not a negligible route for SARS-CoV-2 transmission within a community, especially in indoor environment. This necessarily evokes a need of fomite disinfection to remove virions, but the extent to which fomite disinfection breaks off virus transmission chain in indoor environment is still elusive. In this study, we evaluated the fomite disinfection effectiveness on COVID-19 case number using network analysis that reproduced the reported indoor outbreaks. In the established network, virus can move around not only human but also air and fomite while growing in human and decaying in air and on fomite, and infection success was determined based on the exposed virus amount and the equation of probability of infection. The simulation results have demonstrated that infectious virions on fomite should be kept less than a hundred to sufficiently reduce COVID-19 case, and every-hour disinfection was required to avoid stochastic increase in the infection case. This study gives us a practical disinfection manner for fomite to control SARS-CoV-2 transmission in indoor environment.", 
    "abstract": "Nipah virus (NiV) is a highly lethal zoonotic pathogen that poses a significant threat to human and animal health. Unfortunately, no effective treatments have been developed for this deadly zoonotic disease. Therefore, we designed a chimeric multiepitope vaccine targeting the Nipah virus (NiV) glycoprotein and fusion protein through immunoinformatic approaches. Therefore, the vaccine was developed by combining promising and potential antigenic MHC-I, MHC-II, and B-cell epitopes obtained from the selected proteins. When combined, the MHC-I and MHC-II epitopes offered 100\u00a0% global population coverage. The physicochemical characterization also exhibited favorable properties, including solubility and potential functional stability of the vaccine within the body (GRAVY score of -0.308). Structural analyses unveiled a well-stabilized secondary and tertiary structure with a Ramachandran score of 84.4\u00a0% and a Z score of -5.02. Findings from docking experiments with TLR-2 (-1089.3\u00a0kJ/mol) and TLR-4 (-1016.7\u00a0kJ/mol) showed a strong affinity of the vaccine towards the receptor. Molecular dynamics simulations revealed unique conformational dynamics among the \"vaccine-apo,\" \"vaccine-TLR-2,\" and \"vaccine-TLR-4\u2033 complexes. Consequently, the complexes exhibited significant compactness, flexibility, and exposure to solvents. The results of the codon optimization were remarkable, as the vaccine showed a significant amount of expression in the E. coli vector (GC content of 45.36 % and a CAI score of 1.0). The results of immune simulations, however, showed evidence of both adaptive and innate immune responses induced by the vaccine. Therefore, we highly recommend further research on this chimeric multiepitope vaccine to establish its efficacy and safety against the Nipah virus (NiV).", 
    "abstract": "Ergothioneine (EGT) has attracted great attention due to its extremely potent antioxidant properties, universally acknowledged as 'longevity vitamin'. In order to comprehensive understanding of its pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics, the binding mechanism of EGT with human serum albumin (HSA) was clarified by cutting-edged multi-spectroscopic approaches and in silico molecular docking coupled with molecular dynamic simulation. Our fluorescence quenching results revealed that the binding of EGT to HSA was in a static quenching mode validated by the descending Stern-Volmer constant (K", 
    "abstract": "Obesity, a prevalent global health concern, is characterized by excessive fat accumulation, which confers significant nutritional and health risks, including a shortened lifespan and diminished wellbeing. Central to the regulation of energy balance and food intake is the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) protein, which modulates the interplay between caloric consumption and energy expenditure. Given its pivotal role in obesity regulation, the identification of effective inhibitors targeting the FTO protein is imperative for developing therapeutic interventions. Currently available anti-obesity drugs are often plagued by undesirable side effects. In contrast, natural plant-derived bioactive compounds are gaining prominence in the pharmaceutical industry due to their efficacy and lower incidence of adverse effects. Little Millet, a traditional cereal known for its rich nutritional profile and high satiety index, was investigated in this study using molecular docking and dynamics simulation approach for its potential as an anti-obesity agent. Our research demonstrates that four bioactive compounds from Little Millet exhibit superior binding energies ranging from 7.22 to 8.83\u2009kcal/mol, compared to the standard anti-obesity drug, orlistat, which has a binding energy of 5.96\u2009kcal/mol. These compounds fulfilled all drug-like criteria, including the Lipinski, Ghose, Veber, Egan, and Muegge rules, and exhibited favorable profiles in terms of distribution, metabolism, and prolonged half-life without toxicity. Conversely, orlistat was associated with hepatotoxicity, a reduced half-life, and multiple violations of drug-likeness parameters, undermining its efficacy. Molecular dynamics simulations and Gibbs free energy assessments revealed that the four identified compounds maintain stable interactions with key residues in the FTO protein's active site. We propose further validation through extensive ", 
    "abstract": "This work examines the use of cellulose in the elimination of anionic dye, indigo carmine and methyl red, from aqueous media. Theoretical analyses revealed that the examined compounds had several reactive sites that encouraged dyes to adhere to the cellulose surface, and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated that this adsorption occurred flat-lying on the cellulose (200) surface. However, it has been discovered that the reactivity of individual molecules is limited in its ability to foretell the effectiveness and characteristics of compound adsorption on cellulose. The capacity to model dye adsorption on polymeric surfaces in the presence of a simulated aqueous solution is one of the key benefits of molecular dynamics modeling, and it can reveal valuable information regarding the selected molecules' adsorption configuration and its competitiveness. Both dyes exhibit high adsorption on the cellulose adsorbent, indicating that chemical bonds play a major role in the adsorption capacity of the dyes. The order of adsorption energy indicates a clear selective adsorption tendency. The radial distribution function analysis shows that both dyes are chemisorbed at the cellulose surface. Quantum and dynamic descriptors have validated the experimental results in the literature. This offers valuable insights into the adsorption mechanism of anionic dyes on cellulose.", 
    "abstract": "Pancreatic cancer, with a 5-year survival rate below 10\u202f%, is one of the deadliest malignancies. The TGF-\u00df pathway plays a crucial role in this disease, making it a key target for therapeutic intervention. Clinical trials targeting TGF-\u03b2 have faced challenges of toxicity and limited efficacy, highlighting the need for more potent small molecule inhibitors. We selected TGF\u00dfR1 as the drug target to inhibit TGF-\u00df signaling in pancreatic cancer. A multi-faceted approach was employed, commencing with AI-driven screening techniques to rapidly identify potential TGF\u00dfR1 inhibitors from vast compound libraries, including the ZINC and ChEMBL databases. AI-screened compounds were further validated through structure-based high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS) to evaluate their binding affinity to TGF\u00dfR1. In addition to this, a dedicated library of anticancer compounds (65,000 compounds) and protein kinase inhibitors (36,324 compounds) were also used for HTVS. Subsequently, pharmacokinetic profiling narrowed the selection to 40 hit compounds. Five hit compounds were chosen based on binding affinity, non-bonded interactions, stereochemistry, and pharmacokinetic profiles for molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Trajectory analysis showed that residues HIS283, ASP351, LYS232, SER280, ILE211, and LYS213 within TGF\u00dfR1's active site are crucial for ligand binding through hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. Principal component analysis (PCA) and Dynamic cross-correlation matrix (DCCM) analysis were used to evaluate the receptor's dynamic response to the hit compounds. The simulation data revealed that compounds 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 formed stable complexes with TGF\u00dfR1. Notably, post-MDS MM-GBSA analysis showed that compounds 4 and 5 exhibited exceptionally strong binding energies of -81.0\u202fkcal/mol and -85.5\u202fkcal/mol, respectively. The comprehensive computational analysis confirms compounds 4 and 5 as promising TGF\u00dfR1 hits with potential therapeutic applications in development of new treatments for pancreatic cancer.", 
    "abstract": "Aberrant fucosylation is the hallmark of malignant cell transformation, leading to many cellular events, such as uncontrolled cell proliferation, angiogenesis, tumor cell invasion, and metastasis. This increased fucosylation is caused due to the over-expression of fucosyltransferases (FUTs) that catalyzes the transfer of the fucose (Fuc) residue from GDP-fucose (donor substrate) to various oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, and glycolipids (acceptor substrates). Hence, fucosyltransferases (FUTs) are considered as validated target for the drug discovery against on cancers. In the current study, a drug repurposing approach was deployed to identify new hits against fucosyltransferase 2 (FUT2), using computational and biophysical techniques. A library of 500 US-FDA approved drugs were screened in-silico against fucosyltransferase 2 (FUT2) donor and acceptor sites. Five drugs were predicted as hits, based on their significant docking scores (-5.8 to -8.2), and binding energies (-43 to -51.19 Kcal/mol). Furthermore, STD-NMR highlighted the epitope of these drugs in the binding site of fucosyltransferase 2 (FUT2). Simulation studies provided insights about the binding site of these drugs, and 4 of them, acarbose, ascorbic acid, ibuprofen, and enalaprilat dihydrate, were found as significant binders at the donor binding site of fucosyltransferase 2 (FUT2). Hence, the current study reports the repurposed drugs as potential hits against fucosyltransferase 2 (FUT2). These may be further studied through in-vitro and in-vivo inhibitory and mechanistic studies.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative neurological disorder that chronically and irreversibly affects memory, cognitive function, learning ability, and organizational skills. Numerous studies have demonstrated BACE1 as a critical therapeutic target for AD, emphasizing the need for specific inhibition of BACE1 to develop effective therapeutics. However, current BACE1 inhibitors have certain limitations. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify potential novel candidates derived from natural products that can be utilized for the treatment of AD. To achieve this, 80,617 natural compounds from the ZINC database were subjected to virtual screening and subsequently filtered according to the rule of five (RO5), leading to the identification of 1,200 compounds. Subsequently, the 1,200 compounds underwent molecular docking studies against the BACE1 receptor, utilizing high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS), standard precision (SP), and extra precision (XP) techniques to identify high-affinity ligands. Of the 50 ligands that exhibited the highest G-Scores in HTVS, further analysis was conducted using SP docking and scoring methods. This analysis led to the identification of seven ligands with enhanced binding affinities, which were then subjected to additional screening via XP docking and scoring. Finally, the stability of the most promising ligand in relation to BACE1 was assessed through molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The computational screening demonstrated that the docking energy values for seven ligands binding to target enzymes ranged between -\u20096.096 and -\u20097.626\u00a0kcal/mol. Among these, ligand 2 (L2) exhibited the best binding energy at -7.626\u00a0kcal/mol with BACE1. MD simulations further confirmed the stability of the BACE1-L2 complex, emphasizing the formation of a robust interaction between L2 and the target enzymes. Additionally, pharmacokinetic and drug-likeness evaluations indicated that L2 is non-carcinogenic and able to permeate the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The findings of this study will contribute to narrowing down the selection of candidates for subsequent in vitro and in vivo testing.", 
    "abstract": "Nanotechnology has opened new avenues for advanced research in various fields of soft materials. Materials scientists, chemists, physicists, and computational mathematicians have begun to take a keen interest in soft materials due to their potential applications in nanopatterning, membrane separation, drug delivery, nanolithography, advanced storage media, and nanorobotics. The unique properties of soft materials, particularly self-assembly, have made them useful in fields ranging from nanotechnology to biomedicine. The discovery of new morphologies in the diblock copolymer system in curved geometries is a challenging problem for mathematicians and theoretical scientists. Structural frustration under the effects of confinement in the system helps predict new structures. This mathematical study evaluates the effects of confinement and curvature on symmetric diblock copolymer melt using a cell dynamic simulation model. New patterns in lamella morphologies are predicted. The Laplacian involved in the cell dynamic simulation model is approximated by generating a 17-point stencil discretized to a polar grid by the finite difference method. Codes are programmed in FORTRAN to run the simulation, and IBM open DX is used to visualize the results. Comparison of computational results with existing studies validates this study and identifies defects and new patterns.", 
    "abstract": "To investigate the effect of microcatheter shaping based on the parent artery mainstream line of blood flow simulated using the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) technique on embolization of unruptured aneurysms on the posterior wall of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) A1 segment.\nPatients with unruptured cerebral aneurysms on the posterior wall of the ACA A1 segment were retrospectively enrolled and treated with endovascular embolization after microcatheter shaping. The clinical, embolization and follow-up data were analyzed.\nEight patients were enrolled and treated with endovascular embolization. Eight microcatheters were steam shaped in vitro and were all successfully navigated to the right location in the in vitro experiment. During the embolization procedure, seven microcatheters were successfully navigated to the right location for embolization. In the remaining one patient who had tortuous cerebral arteries, reshaping of the microcatheter based on the parent artery mainstream of blood flow made successful navigation of the microcatheter to the right place. Complete occlusion was obtained in seven (87.5%) aneurysms and residual aneurysm neck in the remaining one (12.5%). At angiographic follow-up in 6 (75%) patients, the Raymond grade was I in 5 (83.3%) and II in the rest one (16.7%).\nUse of CFD simulation of parent artery blood flow for microcatheter shaping in the embolization of unruptured aneurysms on the posterior wall of the ACA A1 segment is safe and effective in navigating the microcatheter to the right location for embolization, resulting in good stability and support for the embolization.", 
    "abstract": "We develop a computational method for modeling electrostatic interactions of arbitrarily shaped, polarizable objects on colloidal length scales, including colloids/nanoparticles, polymers, and surfactants, dispersed in explicit ion electrolytes and nonionic solvents. Our method computes the nonuniform polarization charge distribution induced in a colloidal particle by both externally applied electric fields and local electric fields arising from other charged objects in the dispersion. This leads to expressions for electrostatic energies, forces, and torques that enable efficient molecular dynamics and Brownian dynamics simulations of colloidal dispersions in electrolytes, which can be harnessed to accurately predict structural and transport properties. We describe an implementation in which colloidal particles are modeled as rigid composites of small spherical beads that tessellate the surface of the particle. The electrostatics calculations are accelerated using a spectrally accurate particle-mesh-Ewald technique implemented on a graphics processing unit and regularized such that the electrostatic calculations are well-defined even for overlapping bodies. We illustrate the effectiveness of this approach with a comprehensive set of calculations: the induced dipole moments and forces for individual, paired, and lattice configurations of spherical colloids in an electric field; the induced dipole moment and torque for anisotropic particles subjected to an electric field; the equilibrium ion distribution in the double layer surrounding charged colloids; the dynamics of charged colloids; and the behavior of ions in the double layer of a polarizable colloid under the influence of an electric field.", 
    "abstract": "An investigation was performed to determine the relevant hemodynamic parameters which could help assess vascular pathology in human diseases. Using these parameters, this study aims to assess if there are any hemodynamic differences in the cerebral veins of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and controls which could impact the etiology of MS.\n40 MS participants and 20 controls were recruited for this study. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to enable 3D geometries of the anatomy and the blood flow rates at the boundaries to be computed. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models were created for each participant and simulated using patient-specific boundary conditions.\nThe pressure drop and vascular resistance did not significantly differ between the groups. The internal jugular vein (IJV) cross-sectional area was larger in the MS group (Right IJV: p = 0.04, Left IJV: p = 0.02) and the straight sinus (ST) flow rate was higher in MS across all ages (p = 0.005) compared to controls. Vascular resistance was shown to indicate regions in the cerebral veins which could correspond to increased venous pressure. Conclusion & Significance: This study shows that the pressure and vascular resistance of the cerebral veins are unlikely to be directly related to the etiology of MS. The finding of higher ST flow could correspond to increased inflammation in the deep venous system. Resistance as a measure of vascular pathology shows promise and could be useful to holistically investigate blood flow hemodynamics in a variety of other diseases of the circulatory system.", 
    "abstract": "One of the significant therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3\u03b2 (GSK-3\u03b2). Inhibition of GSK-3\u03b2 can prevent hyperphosphorylation of tau, and thus prevent formation and accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads that block intracellular transport, trigger unfolded protein response, and increase oxidative stress, cumulatively leading to neurodegeneration. In this study, we have performed structure-based virtual screening of two small-molecule libraries from ChemDiv CNS databases using AutoDock Vina to identify hit molecules based on their binding affinities compared to that of an established GSK-3\u03b2 inhibitor, indirubin-3'-monoxime (IMO). Pharmacoinformatic screening on SwissADME and pkCSM servers enabled identification of lead molecules with favorable pharmacoinformatic properties for drug likeliness, including blood brain barrier (BBB) permeability. Further, molecular dynamic simulations identified six candidate lead molecules that show stable complex formation with GSK-3\u03b2 in dynamic state under physiological conditions. Principal component analysis of the dynamic state was used to plot Free Energy Landscapes (FELs) of GSK-3\u03b2-ligand complexes. STRIDE secondary structure analysis of the lowest energy conformations identified from FEL plots, and binding free energy calculations by Molecular Mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann Surface Area ((", 
    "abstract": "The titled molecule 2-Amino-N-(2-chloro-6-methylphenyl)thiazole-5-carboxamide (ANMC) is a core of anticancer drug dasatinib (leukemia). Its derivatives exhibited bioactivity against breast cancer. Experimentally, the titled compound was described using NMR (", 
    "abstract": "Amyloid \u03b2 protein (A\u03b2) deposition has been implicated as the molecular driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. The modulation of the formation of abnormal aggregates and their post-translational modification is strongly suggested as the most effective approach to anti-AD. Beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) acts upstream in amyloidogenic processing to generate A\u03b2, which rapidly aggregates alone or in combination with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) to form fibrils. Accumulated A\u03b2 promotes BACE1 activation via glycogen synthase kinase-3\u03b2 (GSK-3\u03b2) and is post-translationally modified by glutaminyl cyclase (QC), resulting in increased neurotoxicity. A novel multi-target inhibitor as a potential AD agent was identified using an in silico approach and experimental validation. ", 
    "abstract": "The proviral Integration site of Moloney (PIM) kinase is highly expressed in various diseases, including cancer, making the development of selective inhibitors for this protein important. A series of PIM1 inhibitors, triazolo [4, 3-b] pyridazin-3-yl-quinoline derivatives, have been studied to design new inhibitors. The activity and structural features of these derivatives were investigated to understand their interactions with PIM1 using molecular docking, molecular dynamic simulation, and QSAR techniques. In a study of 30 compounds using the structure-activity technique and the MLR method, a linear model with R", 
    "abstract": "Anthocyanins are susceptible to degradation owing to environmental factors. Combining them with proteins can improve their stability; however, the interaction mechanism is difficult to elucidate. This study used multispectral and molecular dynamics simulations and molecular docking methods to investigate the interaction mechanism between peanut protein isolate (PPI) and cyanidin-3-O-glucoside (C3G). The UV absorption peak and PPI turbidity increased, while the fluorescence intensity decreased with greater C3G content. Protein secondary structure changes suggested that PPI and C3G coexisted in spontaneous covalent and non-covalent interactions via static quenching. The complex structures were stable over time and C3G stably bound to the peanut globulin Ara h 3 cavity through hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions. Furthermore, PPI enhanced the C3G antioxidant activity and bioaccessibility by increasing its retention rate during in-vitro simulated digestion. This study elucidates the binding mechanism of PPI and C3G and provides insight into applications of the complex in food development.", 
    "abstract": "Turbinaria ornata, Polycladia myrica, and Padina pavonica is a perennial Mediterranean-native seaweed that is commonly used for mass display. The principal aims of this reconnaissance were the isolation of various compounds from methanolic seaweeds extraction and screening the potential effect as antibacterial, and antioxidant. The micro-dilution method was used to measure antibacterial activity. Gas chromatography-mass spectrophotometry (GC. Mass) abused to analyze the chemical components of the methanolic seaweed extract. The existence of 19 secondary metabolites was discovered using GC-MS analysis: 8 different compounds for each seaweed's species. Among these bioactive compounds, 4 compounds from P. pavonica extract showed the binding affinity and ability to react with Beta-ketoacyl synthase (PDB ID 1EK4) of Escherichia coli. The phytocompounds' drug-like and poisonous characteristics were predicted. Auto Dock was used to examine the ligand receptor complexes' binding strength. T. ornate and P. pavonica had the highest activity against K. pneumonia, with 22.50\u00a0mm (0.78\u00a0\u00b5g/ml) and 22.23\u00a0mm (5.10\u00a0\u00b5g/ml) obtained, respectively. In a concentration-dependent manner, the extract components demonstrated substantial antioxidant activity. P. pavonica had the highest scavenging activity (78.00%, IC50\u2009=\u20096.35\u00a0\u00b5g/ml), while ascorbic acid had a 96.45% scavenging impact. Because the chemicals bind to the Lipinski Ro5, they have drug-like characteristics. The compounds had no hepatotoxic effects. P. pavonica extract has the prospect of being used as a source of medicinal drug-like chemicals. The docking investigation found a strong correlation between the experimental results and the docking results. Finally, brown seaweed extract, particularly P. pavonica extract, demonstrated strong antibacterial, antioxidant, and free radical scavenging properties.", 
    "abstract": "Ever since the outbreak of listeriosis and other related illnesses caused by the dreadful pathogen \nThe main goal of this study is to comprehend the potential of terpenes, a major class of secondary metabolites in inhibiting one of the disease-causing protein Internalin A (InlA) of the pathogen via \nThe best binding affinity value of -9.5\u00a0kcal/mol was observed for Bipinnatin and Epispongiadiol according to the molecular docking studies. The compounds were further subjected to ADMET and biological activity estimation which confirmed their good pharmacokinetic properties and antibacterial activity.\nMolecular dynamic simulation for a timescale of 100\u00a0ns finally revealed Epispongiadiol to be a promising drug-like compound that could possibly pave the way to the treatment of this disease.", 
    "abstract": "P-glycoprotein, an ATP-dependent efflux transporter, plays a crucial role in eliminating cellular toxins and affects the intracellular concentration and bioavailability of CDK 4/6 inhibitors. Moreover, dietary flavonoids are natural bio-enhancers that can effectively inhibit the efflux function of these transporters. Therefore, this study aimed to assess the impact of dietary polyphenols on the inhibition of P-glycoprotein and the subsequent efflux of CDK inhibitors palbociclib and ribociclib.\nA molecular docking approach was implemented to evaluate the binding interaction characteristics of CDK4/6 inhibitors in the presence of dietary polyphenols at the ATP binding site. Furthermore, the stability of the complexes was evaluated in two conformations of P-glycoprotein, followed by an ex vivo everted gut sac experiment.\nThe findings demonstrated that the binding of curcumin and quercetin with high affinity (-51.63 and 47.16 Kcal/mol) to ATP binding sites of P-glycoprotein-palbociclib and ribociclib inward conformation complexes resulted in good stability of complex and minimal fluctuation throughout the course of the simulation. It was evident from the everted gut sac ex vivo study that the presence of 100\u00b5M of curcumin resulted in an increase of 1.77 and 4.20-fold in the intestinal transit of palbociclib and ribociclib, respectively.\nThe study emphasizes the significance of curcumin and quercetin as inhibitors of P-glycoprotein, demonstrating their potential to decrease the efflux of palbociclib and ribociclib, consequently contributing to their bioavailability enhancement.", 
    "abstract": "In view of the current problems of slow crystallization rate, varying grain sizes, complex process conditions, and low safety in the preparation of CL-20/TNT cocrystal explosives in the laboratory, an opposite spray crystallization method is provided to quickly prepare ultrafine explosive cocrystal particles. CL-20/TNT cocrystal explosive was prepared using this method, and the obtained cocrystal samples were characterized by electron microscopy morphology, differential thermal analysis, infrared spectroscopy, and X-ray diffraction analysis. The effects of spray temperature, feed ratio, and preparation method on the formation of explosive cocrystal were studied, and the process conditions of the pneumatic atomization spray crystallization method were optimized. The crystal plane binding energy and molecular interaction forces between CL-20 and TNT were obtained through molecular dynamic simulation, and the optimal binding crystal plane and cocrystal mechanism were analyzed. The theoretical calculation temperature of the binding energy was preliminarily explored in relation to the preparation process temperature of cocrystal explosives. The mechanical sensitivity of ultrafine CL-20/TNT cocrystal samples was tested. The results showed that choosing acetone as the cosolvent, a spraying temperature of 30 \u00b0C, and a feeding ratio of 1:1 was beneficial for the formation and growth of cocrystal. The prepared CL-20/TNT cocrystal has a particle size of approximately 10 \u03bcm. The grain size is small, and the crystallization rate is fast. The impact and friction sensitivity of ultrafine CL-20/TNT cocrystal samples were significantly reduced. The experimental process conditions are simple and easy to control, and the safety of the preparation process is high, providing certain technical support for the preparation of high-quality cocrystal explosives.", 
    "abstract": "To delve into the intricate dynamics of green innovation, it is imperative to establish a policy-driven green innovation network and optimize its multi-entity collaborative mechanism. Given the dynamic complexity of a technological innovation network composed of multiple entities, this paper examines the interactions among four subsystems based on system dynamics (SD) simulation: resource input, innovation performance, policy-driven, and digital empowerment subsystem. Furthermore, we analyze the combined effects of policy-driven initiatives and the role of digital platforms in facilitating innovation efficiency based on empirical evidence. The results indicate that: (1) Government can effectively promote green development by enforcing stronger environmental regulations, such as increasing carbon trading price, while enhancing the emission reduction efficiency of innovative products. (2) Increased per capita R&D investment, along with financial, tax, fiscal incentives for innovation investment, will increase the rate of innovation achievements. (3) Government should strengthen talent policy during anticipated increases in talent numbers and reduce the intensity of introductions during expected declines. (4) By implementing incentive policies to develop S&T platforms, government can broaden innovation network cooperation, promotes resource aggregation, and leverages multi-entity cohort effects.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, ADM1-based kinetics were combined with a thermal model that accounts for various heat transfers inside and through the reactor's boundaries. Computing the energy of bioreactions based on kinetic rates prevented an overestimation of approximately 20% in the heat demand of the heat exchanger, compared to calculations using feedstock degradation heat. This also improved the representation of the digester's thermal and reactional inertia. Simulations across different climates demonstrated the necessity to tailor digester construction. In the North West United Kingdom, biogas auto-consumption was 23% higher than that of the same reactor in South West France. Enhancing the thermal insulation of the digester reduced heat losses by 37% in the United Kingdom. Therefore, coupling the kinetic and thermal models expands the insights that can be extracted from simulations, which can be valuable in optimizing the operation and design of biogas digesters.", 
    "abstract": "Ripened pu-erh tea is known to have beneficial hypoglycemic properties. However, it remains unclear whether the bioactive peptides produced during fermentation are also related to hypoglycemic potential. This study aimed to identify hypoglycemic peptides in ripened pu-erh tea and to elucidate their bioactive mechanisms using physicochemical property prediction, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and cell experiments. Thirteen peptides were identified by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Among them, AADTDYRFS (AS-9) and AGDGTPYVR (AR-9) exhibited high \u03b1-glucosidase inhibitory activity, with half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) presents a significant global health challenge, with its prevalence expected to rise sharply in the coming years. Despite extensive research, effective treatments addressing the multifaceted pathophysiology of AD remain elusive. This study investigates the therapeutic potential of twenty-seven prolinamides (P1 - P27), with the focus on their interactions with key proteins implicated in AD pathogenesis. Four of the compounds, namely; 10-((4-nitrophenyl)prolyl)-10\u00a0H-phenothiazine (P14), 2-((4-nitrophenyl)prolyl)isoindoline (P19), 1-(4-formylphenyl)-\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-024-00250-z.", 
    "abstract": "Recently, Egypt had seismic activity. These seismic events have affected the stability of minarets, especially historical ones. Weight is one of the minaret's main stability factors. The main objective of the current research is to perform a three-dimensional (3D) assessment of an existing minaret, determine its accurate spatial model, document its current condition, examine its stability in the event of earthquakes, and identify the requisite measures to safeguard the minaret from any potential damage. The masonry to construct the minaret was used by extracting and examining specimens of this substance to determine its physical characteristics. The current work created three-dimensional models of the Abou-Ghanam El-Bialy minaret using a terrestrial laser scanner (TLS) to document its current condition, as well as minaret was subjected to a free vibration analysis using 3D finite element modeling. Finally, the minaret's seismic behavior was assessed utilizing mode forms, base responses, and normal stresses. The surveying method effectively documented the Minarets' existing case. The 3D seismic analysis showed that the minaret responded dynamically to earthquake loading, with mode shapes, base reactions, and normal stresses being crucial characteristics. Based on these data, we may suggest procedures to protect the minaret during seismic events.", 
    "abstract": "Two series of C-Mannich base derivatives were synthesized and evaluated through the reaction of formaldehyde, two thiazolo-pyrimidine compounds, and various 2\u00b0-amines. The chemical structures and inherent properties of the synthesized compounds were authenticated using a variety of spectroscopic techniques. The aseptic bactericidal potential of the compounds was assessed alongside five common bacterial microbes, with Ampicillin employed as the reference drug. Compounds 9b and 9d demonstrated comparable antibacterial activity to ampicillin against Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus megaterium, respectively, at 100\u2009\u03bcg/mL. Furthermore, compounds 9f and 10f exhibited noteworthy action against Staphylococcus aureus (MIC: 250\u2009\u03bcg/mL). Compounds 10b and 10f displayed excellent efficacy versus Escherichia coli, boasting (MIC: 50\u2009\u03bcg/mL). Molecular docking studies elucidated the necessary connections and energies of molecular entities with the E. coli DNA gyrase B enzyme, a pivotal target in bacterial DNA replication. Further thermodynamic stability of the ligand-receptor complex of 10b and 10f were further validated though 200\u2009ns molecular dynamics simulation. The findings highlight the potential of these synthesized derivatives as effective antibacterial agents and provide valuable insights into their mechanism of action.", 
    "abstract": "By addressing the phenomenon of carbody abnormal vibrations in the field, the acceleration of the carbody and bogie was measured using accelerometers, and the diamond mode of the carbody was identified. The equivalent conicity of the wheelset and the acceleration at the frame end indicated that the shaking of the carbody was caused by bogie hunting. In the SIMPACK simulation, the acceleration frequency and amplitude at the frame end and midsection of the side beam were calculated. The lateral deformation amplitude of the side beam in the finite element model was extracted, and a modal shape function for the diamond-shaped mode was established. By utilizing the modal vibration equation, the modal generalized forces of the carbody were computed, revealing that, during carbody shaking, the yaw damper force contributed significantly among the forces of the secondary suspension, with the phase difference between the front and rear bogies approaching 180\u00b0. This insight offers a novel perspective for subsequent active control strategies. Subsequently, these modal generalized forces were applied as external excitation to a coupled vibration model encompassing both the carbody and transformer. Aiming to reduce the acceleration amplitude at the side beam, the transformer was treated as a dynamic vibration absorber, allowing for the optimization of its lateral suspension parameters. As a result, the lateral and vertical acceleration amplitudes at the side beam were concurrently reduced, with the maximum decrease reaching 58.5%, significantly enhancing the ride comfort.", 
    "abstract": "Using plant extracts as photosensitizers in photodynamic therapy (PDT) represents a significant green approach toward sustainability. This study investigates beetroot juice (BRJ), betanin, and their liposomal formulations (Lip-BRJ, Lip-Bet) as photosensitizers in cancer PDT. BRJ was prepared, and its betanin content was quantified via HPLC. The p-nitrosodimethylaniline (RNO)/imidazole technique monitored the singlet oxygen formation. BRJ and betanin decreased the RNO absorbance at 440 nm by 12% and 9% after 45 min of irradiation, respectively. Furthermore, betanin interaction with Bcl-2 proteins was examined using binding free energy analysis and molecular dynamic simulation. The results revealed favorable interactions with \u0394G values of -40.94 kcal/mol. Then, BRJ, betanin, Lip-BRJ, and Lip-Bet were tested as photosensitizers on normal (HEK 293) and human lung cancer (A549) cell lines. Irradiation significantly enhanced the cytotoxicity of Lip-Bet on HEK 293 cells (20% cell viability at 2000 \u00b5g/mL) and A549 cells (13% cell viability at 1000 \u00b5g/mL). For Lip-BRJ, irradiation significantly enhanced the cytotoxicity on HEK 293 cells at lower concentrations and on A549 cells at all tested concentrations. These results proved the positive effect of light and liposomal encapsulation on the anticancer activity of betanin and BRJ, suggesting the efficiency of liposomal beetroot pigments as green photosensitizers.", 
    "abstract": "3,4-bis(3-nitrofurazan-4-yl) furoxan (DNTF) is an explosive with excellent performance, and the use of DNTF as a high-energy component is of great significance for improving the comprehensive performance of weapons. To explore the effect of DNTF on low-melting-point molten carrier explosives, the compatibility between DNTF and other low-melting-point explosives was analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry, and mechanical sensitivity was tested. The compatibility and cohesive energy density between DNTF and other low-melting-point explosives were calculated by Materials Studio. The results showed that DNTF has good compatibility with most low-melting-point explosives, and the peak temperature change of the mixed system formed by melt-casting is not obvious. Among them, DNTF has the best compatibility with MTNP, TNT, and DNAN; moderate compatibility with DFTNAN and DNP; and the worst compatibility with DNMT. The sensitivity test results indicate that the combination of DNTF and TNT has the most significant reduction in mechanical sensitivity. DFTNAN and MTNP have better stability than DNTF and can generate strong interaction forces with DNTF. Other low-melting-point explosives mixed with DNTF have lower intermolecular forces than DNTF. The DNTF/MTNP system requires the most energy to phase change when heated compared to other mixed systems and is the least sensitive to heat. The DNTF/DNMT system has the lowest cohesive energy density and is the most sensitive to heat.", 
    "abstract": "Newcastle disease virus (NDV) is a highly infectious viral disease that impacts birds globally, especially domestic poultry. NDV is a type of avian paramyxovirus which poses a major threat to the poultry industry due to its ability to inflict significant economic damage. The membrane protein, Hemagglutinin-Neuraminidase (HN) of NDV is an attractive therapeutic candidate. It contributes to pathogenicity through various functions, such as promoting fusion and preventing viral self-agglutination, which allows for viral spread. In this study, we used pharmacophore modeling to identify natural molecules that can inhibit the HN protein of NDV. Physicochemical characteristics and phylogenetic analysis were determined to elucidate structural information and phylogeny of target protein across different species as well as members of the virus family. For structural analysis, the missing residues of HN target protein were filled and the structure was evaluated by PROCHECK and VERIFY 3D. Moreover, shape and feature-based pharmacophore model was employed to screen natural compounds' library through numerous scoring schemes. Top 48 hits with 0.8860 pharmacophore fit score were subjected towards structure-based molecular docking. Top 9 compounds were observed witihin the range of -8.9 to -7.5\u00a0kcal/mol binding score. Five best-fitting compounds in complex with HN receptor were subjected to predict biological activity and further analysis. Top two hits were selected for MD simulations to validate binding modes and structural stability. Finally, upon scrutinization, A1 (ZINC05223166) emerges as potential HN inhibitor to treat NDV, necessitating further validation via clinical trials.", 
    "abstract": "Recently, hydrothermal coliquefaction of biomass and plastic waste has attracted considerable research interest. However, there is a notable gap in understanding the fundamental reaction mechanisms between biomass and plastics during coliquefaction. This study focused on the coliquefaction of biomass model compounds and plastic polymers using ReaxFF molecular dynamics simulations under both subcritical and supercritical water conditions. Molecular-level tracking and probing of the reaction mechanisms between biomass model compounds and plastics were conducted to purposefully enhance oil production. The study observed related radical reactions between by-product molecules, with detailed mechanisms primarily involving (1) \u25aaOH radicals released by aqueous phase molecules from biomolecules, transferring as H", 
    "abstract": "Seizures, depression, and anxiety are neurological disorders that affected innumerable people worldwide. Recent research has revealed that targeting 5-hydroxytryptamine 2 (5-HT", 
    "abstract": "Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) is a small GTPase belonging to the Rho family. It acts as a binary molecular switch regulating several cellular functions, including cell adhesion and migration. Malfunctions due to the P29S mutation in Rac1 increase the stability of the activated form of Rac1. This sustained activation can drive aberrant cellular processes associated with cancer, such as cell proliferation, survival, and migration. Therefore, finding an inhibitor that can inhibit the mutant form of the protein is very important. Rhein, a natural compound with diverse pharmacological properties, has been studied in relation to Rac1. However, specific interactions between Rhein and Rac1 have not been examined. In this study, we investigated the potential of Rhein, a natural compound, as an inhibitor of two forms of Rac1: the wild type and the P29S mutation, using molecular dynamics simulations. Results indicated that the P29S mutation led to structural changes in the Rac1 protein, which resulted in greater accessibility of the Rhein to the active site. In addition, the binding energy of Rhein to mutant Rac1 was more negative than the native protein. Therefore, it seems that the Rhein has a better inhibitory effect on the P29S-mutated form of the Rac1 protein.", 
    "abstract": "This paper presents a novel adaptation of the conventional approximate Bayesian computation sequential Monte Carlo (ABC-SMC) sampling algorithm for parameter estimation in the presence of uncertainties, coined ", 
    "abstract": "The study aims to explore the effects of Eugenol (EUG) as an antioxidant on \u03b1-Chymotrypsin (\u03b1-Chy) and its interaction mechanism, with potential implications for new therapy development. The interaction between EUG and \u03b1-Chy was demonstrated through ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy, which resulted in a shift in absorption with docking energies of -22.76\u00a0kJ/mol. An increase in fluorescence intensity indicated that the Trp residues moved to a less polar environment, which is consistent with the changes in accessible surface area (ASA) values. The presence of EUG led to a decrease in \u03b1-helix, \u03b2-turn, and random coil structures as shown by circular dichroism (CD) and Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) analysis. Additionally, there was a slight increase in \u03b2-sheet structures, indicating a decrease in enzyme stability. However, tests for thermal stability showed a decrease in folding upon the introduction of EUG, which contradicted the results obtained from molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The docking studies revealed that EUG forms hydrogen bonds and van der Waals forces with the enzyme, indicating the interaction mechanism. Kinetic studies confirmed that EUG acts as a mixed inhibitor. However, further research involving live organisms is necessary to fully understand its potential.", 
    "abstract": "Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a significant health concern globally, prompting a continual search for novel therapeutic strategies. In this study, we employed a comprehensive approach combining network pharmacology, molecular docking and dynamic simulation to explore the potential impact of a polyherbal formulation on PCa.\nUtilizing comprehensive network pharmacology approaches, we elucidated the complex interactions between the bioactive compounds within the polyherbal formulation and key targets associated with PCa progression, highlighting their multitarget mechanisms through integrated protein\u2012protein interaction and KEGG pathway analyses. Molecular docking simulation studies were performed to predict the binding affinities and modes of interaction between the identified bioactive compounds and their respective protein targets.\nComplex connections comprising 486 nodes and 845 edges were found by the compound-target network analysis. Significant interactions were observed, and the average node degree was 4.23. KEGG research revealed that PCa and the PI3K-Akt signalling pathway are implicated in modulating prostate cancer. The Quercetin docking investigations revealed that the binding energies for AR and PIK3R1 were -9 and -9.5\u00a0kcal/mol, respectively. Based on the results of the MD simulations, it appears that tiny molecules and proteins have formed stable complexes with low fluctuations.\nIn conclusion, this comprehensive method emphasises the value of network pharmacology in conjunction with molecular docking and dynamic simulation in revealing the anti-PCa therapeutic potential of polyherbal formulations, opening up new possibilities for the creation of efficient anti-cancer medicines.", 
    "abstract": "Viral diseases pose a serious global health threat due to their rapid transmission and widespread impact. The RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) participates in the synthesis, transcription, and replication of viral RNA in host. The current study investigates the antiviral potential of secondary metabolites particularly those derived from bacteria, fungi, and plants to develop novel medicines. Using a virtual screening approach that combines molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we aimed to discover compounds with strong interactions with RdRp of five different retroviruses. The top five compounds were selected for each viral RdRp based on their docking scores, binding patterns, molecular interactions, and drug-likeness properties. The molecular docking study uncovered several metabolites with antiviral activity against RdRp. For instance, cytochalasin Z8 had the lowest docking score of -8.9 (kcal/mol) against RdRp of SARS-CoV-2, aspulvinone D (-9.2 kcal/mol) against HIV-1, talaromyolide D (-9.9 kcal/mol) for hepatitis C, aspulvinone D (-9.9 kcal/mol) against Ebola and talaromyolide D also maintained the lowest docking score of -9.2 kcal/mol against RdRp enzyme of dengue virus. These compounds showed remarkable antiviral potential comparable to standard drug (remdesivir -7.4 kcal/mol) approved to target RdRp and possess no significant toxicity. The molecular dynamics simulation confirmed that the best selected ligands were firmly bound to their respective target proteins for a simulation time of 200 ns. The identified lead compounds possess distinctive pharmacological characteristics, making them potential candidates for repurposing as antiviral drugs against SARS-CoV-2. Further experimental evaluation and investigation are recommended to ascertain their efficacy and potential.", 
    "abstract": "Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) are crucial therapeutic targets for both the early and severe stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Chalcones and their chromone-based derivatives are well-known building blocks with anti-Alzheimer properties. This study synthesized 4-benzyloxychalcone derivatives and characterized their structures using IR, ", 
    "abstract": "A sensitive electrochemical DNA biosensor has been developed for the detection of Buprenorphine (Bu), a narcotic pain reliever. To achieve this, double-stranded DNA (ds-DNA) was immobilized on a pencil graphite electrode that was modified with gold nanoparticles (Au NPs/PGE). The gold nanoparticles enhanced the performance of the DNA biosensor. The constructed ds-DNA/Au NPs/ PGE exhibited a linear detection range spanning from 0.05 to 100\u00a0\u03bcM with an impressive detection limit of 20\u00a0nM for Bu detection. Additionally, the DNA biosensor demonstrated good response in real samples evaluations. Finally, the interaction between carbon and gold atoms with DNA was confirmed through molecular dynamics simulation, while the interaction between DNA and the Bu drug was confirmed through molecular docking method. In conclusion, the electrochemical DNA biosensor presented in this study demonstrates exceptional sensitivity and reliability in the detection of buprenorphine. The incorporation of gold nanoparticles, as well as the use of molecular dynamics simulations and docking methods, contributes to a comprehensive understanding of the interactions involved in this detection process.", 
    "abstract": "The pharmaceutical industry faces a significant challenge from the low water solubility of nearly 90% of newly developed Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs). Despite extensive efforts to improve solubility, approximately 40% of these APIs encounter commercialization hurdles, impacting drug efficacy. In this context, a promising strategy will be introduced in which nanosuspensions, particularly polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) as a stabilizer, are applied to increase drug solubility. In this work using molecular dynamics simulations, the nanosuspension of four poorly water-soluble drugs (flurbiprofen, bezafibrate, miconazole, and phenytoin) stabilized with PVA is investigated. The simulation data showed van der Waals energies between polyvinyl alcohol with flurbiprofen and bezafibrate are -\u2009101.12 and -\u200958.42 kJ/mol, respectively. The results indicate that PVA is an effective stabilizer for these drugs, and superior interactions are obtained with flurbiprofen and bezafibrate. The study also explores the impact of PVA on water molecule diffusion, providing insights into the stability of nanosuspensions. Obtained results also provide valuable insights into hydrogen bond formation, diffusion coefficients, and nanosuspension stability, contributing to the rational design and optimization of pharmaceutical formulations.", 
    "abstract": "\u0391-glucosidase inhibition can be useful in the management of carbohydrate-related diseases, especially type 2 diabetes mellitus. Therefore, in this study, a new series of 6-chloro-2-methoxyacridine bearing different aryl triazole derivatives were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as potent \u03b1-glucosidase inhibitors. The most potent derivative in this group was 7h bearing para-fluorine with IC", 
    "abstract": "One of the most challenging issues scientists face is finding a suitable non-invasive treatment for cancer, as it is widespread around the world. The efficacy of phytochemicals that target oncogenic pathways appears to be quite promising and has gained attention over the past few years. We investigated the effect of docking phytochemicals isolated from the rhizomes of the Cimicifuga foetida plant on different domains of the I\u03baB kinase alpha (IKK1/alpha) protein. The Cimicifugoside H-2 phytochemical registered a high docking score on the activation loop of IKK1/alpha amongst the other phytochemicals compared to the positive control. The interaction of the protein with Cimicifugoside H-2 was mostly stabilized by hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. A dynamic simulation was then performed with the Cimicifugoside H-2 phytochemical on the activation loop of IKK1/alpha, revealing that Cimicifugoside H-2 is a possible inhibitor of this protein. The pharmacokinetic properties of the drug were also examined to assess the safety of administering the drug. Therefore, in this in silico study, we discovered that the Cimicifugoside H-2 phytochemical inhibits the actively mutated conformation of IKK1/alpha, potentially suppressing the nuclear factor kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NF-\u03baB) pathway.", 
    "abstract": "Histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) is a member of the histone deacetylase family that has emerged as a crucial target in the quest for novel therapeutic interventions against various complex diseases, including cancer. The repositioning of FDA-approved drugs presents a promising avenue for the rapid discovery of potential HDAC3 inhibitors. In this study, we performed a structure-based virtual screening of FDA-approved drugs obtained from DrugBank. Candidate hits were selected based on their binding affinities and interactions with HDAC3. These promising hits were then subjected to a comprehensive assessment of their biological properties and drug profiles. Our investigation identified two FDA-approved drugs, Imatinib and Carpipramine, characterized by their exceptional affinity and specificity for the binding pocket of HDAC3. These molecules demonstrated a strong preference for HDAC3 binding site and formed interactions with functionally significant residues within the active site pocket. To gain deeper insights into the binding dynamics, structural stability, and interaction mechanisms, we performed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations spanning 300\u00a0nanoseconds (ns). The results of MD simulations indicated that Imatinib and Carpipramine stabilized the structure of HDAC3 and induced fewer conformational changes. Taken together, the findings from this study suggest that Imatinib and Carpipramine may offer significant therapeutic potential for treating complex diseases, especially cancer.", 
    "abstract": "This research introduces the NeuRaiSya (Neural Railway System Application), an innovative railway signaling system integrating deep learning for passenger analysis. The objectives of this research are to simulate the NeuRaiSya and evaluate its effectiveness using the GreatSPN tool (graphical editor for Petri nets). GreatSPN facilitates evaluations of system behavior, ensuring safety and efficiency. Five models were designed and simulated using the Petri nets model, including the Dynamics of Train Departure model, Train Operations with Passenger Counting model, Timestamp Data Collection model, Train Speed and Location model, and Train Related-Issues model. Through simulations and modeling using Petri nets, the study demonstrates the feasibility of the proposed NeuRaiSya system. The results highlight its potential in enhancing railway operations, ensuring passenger safety, and maintaining service quality amidst the evolving railway landscape in the Philippines.", 
    "abstract": "Novel phthalazine derivatives were designed, synthesized and evaluated against Hep G2 and MCF-7 as VEGFR-2 inhibitors. In particular, compounds 2g and 4a were found to be the most potent derivatives among all the tested compounds against MCF-7 and Hep G2 cancer cell lines with IC", 
    "abstract": "Mycotoxin contamination of food has been gaining increasing attention. Hidden mycotoxins that interact with biological macromolecules in food could make the detection of mycotoxins less accurate, potentially leading to the underestimation of the total exposure risk. Interactions of the mycotoxins alternariol (AOH) and alternariol monomethyl ether (AME) with high-molecular glutenin were explored in this study.\nThe recovery rates of AOH and AME (1, 2, and 10\u2009\u03bcg\u2009kg\nThis study revealed the mechanisms of the interactions between AOH (or AME) and high-molecular glutenin using MD and molecular docking. This could be useful in the development of effective methods to detect pollution levels. These results could also play an important role in the evaluation of the toxicological properties of bound altertoxins. \u00a9 2024 Society of Chemical Industry.", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, a novel method is proposed for the determination of the optimal subject-specific placement of knee implants based on predictive dynamic simulations of human movement following total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Two knee implant models are introduced. The first model is a comprehensive 12-degree-of-freedom (DoF) representation that incorporates volumetric contact between femoral and tibial implants, as well as patellofemoral contact. The second model employs a single-degree-of-freedom equivalent kinematic (SEK) approach for the knee joint. A cosimulation framework is proposed to leverage both knee models in our simulations. The knee model is calibrated and validated using patient-specific data, including knee kinematics and ground reaction forces. Additionally, quantitative indices are introduced to evaluate the optimality of implant positioning based on three criteria: balancing medial and lateral load distributions, ligament balancing, and varus/valgus alignment. The knee implant placement is optimized by minimizing the deviation of the indices from their user-defined desired values during predicted sit-to-stand motion. The method presented in this paper has the potential to enhance the results of knee arthroplasty and serve as a valuable instrument for surgeons when planning and performing this procedure.", 
    "abstract": "[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0263792.].", 
    "abstract": "Biomechanical modeling of the knee during motion is a pivotal component in disease treatment, implant designs, and rehabilitation strategies. Historically, dynamic simulations of the knee have been scant. This study uniquely integrates a dual fluoroscopic imaging system (DFIS) to investigate the in vivo dynamic behavior of the meniscus during functional activities using a finite element (FE) model. The model was subsequently validated through experiments. Motion capture of a single-leg lunge was executed by DFIS. The motion model was reconstructed using 2D-to-3D registration in conjunction with computed tomography (CT) scans. Both CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data facilitated the development of the knee FE model. In vivo knee displacements and rotations were utilized as driving conditions for the FE model. Moreover, a 3D-printed model, accompanied with digital imaging correlation (DIC), was used to evaluate the accuracy of the FE model. To a better inner view of knees during the DIC analysis, tibia and femur were crafted by transparent resin. The availability of the FE model was guaranteed by the similar strain distribution of the DIC and FE simulation. Subsequent modeling revealed that the compressive stress distribution between the medial and lateral menisci was balanced in the standing posture. As the flexion angle increased, the medial meniscus bore the primary compressive load, with peak stresses occurring between 60 and 80\u00b0 of flexion. The simulation of a healthy knee provides a critical theoretical foundation for addressing knee pathologies and advancing prosthetic designs.", 
    "abstract": "Excess nitrogen and phosphorus inputs are the main causes of aquatic environmental deterioration. Accurately quantifying and dynamically assessing the regional nitrogen and phosphorus pollution emission (NPPE) loads and influencing factors is crucial for local authorities to implement and formulate refined pollution reduction management strategies. In this study, we constructed a methodological framework for evaluating the spatio-temporal evolution mechanism and dynamic simulation of NPPE. We investigated the spatio-temporal evolution mechanism and influencing factors of NPPE in the Yangtze River Economic Belt (YREB) of China through the pollution load accounting model, spatial correlation analysis model, geographical detector model, back propagation neural network model, and trend analysis model. The results show that the NPPE inputs in the YREB exhibit a general trend of first rising and then falling, with uneven development among various cities in each province. Nonpoint sources are the largest source of land-based NPPE. Overall, positive spatial clustering of NPPE is observed in the cities of the YREB, and there is a certain enhancement in clustering. The GDP of the primary industry and cultivated area are important human activity factors affecting the spatial distribution of NPPE, with economic factors exerting the greatest influence on the NPPE. In the future, the change in NPPE in the YREB at the provincial level is slight, while the nitrogen pollution emissions at the municipal level will develop towards a polarization trend. Most cities in the middle and lower reaches of the YREB in 2035 will exhibit medium to high emissions. This study provides a scientific basis for the control of regional NPPE, and it is necessary to strengthen cooperation and coordination among cities in the future, jointly improve the nitrogen and phosphorus pollution tracing and control management system, and achieve regional sustainable development.", 
    "abstract": "In aqueous and solid media, 2-HP-\u03b2/\u03b3-CD inclusion complexes with poly aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) Phenanthrene (PHN), Anthracene (ANT), Benz(a)pyrene (BaP), and Fluoranthene (FLT) were investigated for the first time. The inclusion complexes were characterized and investigated using fluorescence and ", 
    "abstract": "Based on nanoarchitectonics and molecular dynamics simulations, we investigate the structural properties and diffusion pathway of Na atoms in sodium trisilicate over a wide temperature range. The structural and dynamics properties are analyzed through the radial distribution function (RDF), the Voronoi Si- and O-polyhedrons, the cluster function f", 
    "abstract": "Thermoalkaliphilic lipase enzymes are mostly favored for use in the detergent industry. While there has been considerable research on \nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-04023-5.", 
    "abstract": "Any pathogenic attack, infection, or disease can initiate inflammation. It results in significant adverse consequences like inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis, etc. TNF\u03b1 is one of the major pro-inflammatory cytokines for the progression of inflammation-the present study designed a series of hybrid compounds consisting of the pyrazole-pyridine moiety. Virtual screening was performed utilizing the e-pharmacophore hypothesis with the co-ligand of TNF\u03b1, screening, docking, and ADMET study. Induced fit docking, DFT analysis, and molecular dynamic simulation showed that the four best molecules - Dh1- Dh4-showed crucial interaction with Tyrosine, higher dock scores, and better stability than Diclofenac. Following the synthesis of hit molecules, an in\u2005vitro albumin denaturation IC", 
    "abstract": "Drug resistance has been a problem in cancer chemotherapy, which often causes shortterm effectiveness. Further, the literature indicates that telomere G-quadruplex could be a promising anti-cancer target.\nWe synthesized and characterized two new pyrimidine derivatives as ligands for G-quadruplex DNA.\nThe interaction of novel non-cationic and cationic pyrimidine derivatives (3a, b) with G-quadruplex DNA (1k8p and 3qsc) was explored by circular dichroism (CD) and ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) methods. The antiproliferative activity of desired compounds was evaluated by the MTT assay. Apoptosis induction was assessed by Propidium iodide (P.I.) staining and flow cytometry. Computational molecular modeling (CMM) and molecular dynamics simulation (MD) were studied on the complexes of 1k8p and 3qsc with the compounds. The van der Waals, electrostatic, polar solvation, solventaccessible surface area (SASA), and binding energies were calculated and analyzed.\nThe experimental results confirmed that both compounds 3a and 3b interacted with 1k8p and 3qsc and exerted cytotoxic and proapoptotic effects on cancer cells. The number of hydrogen bonds and the RMSD values increased in the presence of the ligands, indicating stronger binding and suggesting increased structural dynamics. The electrostatic contribution to binding energy was higher for the cationic pyrimidine 3b, indicating more negative binding energies.\nBoth experimental and MD results confirmed that 3b was more prone to form a complex with DNA G-quadruplex (1k8p and 3qsc), inhibit cell growth, and induce apoptosis, compared to the non-cationic pyrimidine 3a.", 
    "abstract": "This works proposes a dynamic thermoeconomic analysis of a liquefied biomethane production plant to meet the fuel demand of a fleet of heavy duty trucks in the south of Italy. The biomethane is obtained from the upgrading of the biogas produced by means of anaerobic digestion through a plug flow reactor fed by organic fraction of municipal solid waste. The upgrading of the biogas is realized using a three-stage membrane compression process, producing a 96 % pure biomethane. The biomethane liquefaction is realized using a single-mixed refrigerant process and compared to a Linde cycle process. The whole system is assisted by solar energy to reduce the fossil energy consumption of the process and feed-in tariffs are considered as funding policy. The models for the anaerobic digestion, the biogas upgrading, and the biomethane liquefaction are in detail developed in MatLab. The anaerobic digestion model is based on the ADM1 biological model, integrated with a suitable heat transfer model. The biogas upgrading model is based on a simplified Fick model. The liquefaction model is based on an equivalent two heat-exchangers model, taking into account the transient heat transfer. All the components are then integrated in TRNSYS to perform the dynamic simulation for one operating year of the whole system. Results from the thermoeconomic analysis are outstanding in terms of profitability, showing a payback period of less than 2 years and a Net Present Value of the system of 402\u00a0M\u20ac. The great environmental impact is also confirmed by a Primary Energy Saving of 91 % and a dramatic reduction of 86 % of the CO", 
    "abstract": "Oncogenic overexpression or activation of C-terminal Src kinase (CSK) has been shown to play an important role in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) progression, including tumor initiation, growth, metastasis, drug resistance. This revelation has pivoted the focus toward CSK as a potential target for novel treatments. However, until now, there are few inhibitors designed to target the CSK protein. Responding to this, our research has implemented a comprehensive virtual screening protocol. By integrating energy-based screening methods with AI-driven scoring functions, such as Attentive FP, and employing rigorous rescoring methods like Glide docking and molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM/GBSA), we have systematically sought out inhibitors of CSK. This approach led to the discovery of a compound with a potent CSK inhibitory activity, reflected by an IC", 
    "abstract": "Single-point mutations in the Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS) viral proto-oncogene are the most common cause of human cancer. In humans, oncogenic KRAS mutations are responsible for about 30% of lung, pancreatic, and colon cancers. One of the predominant mutant KRAS G12D variants is responsible for pancreatic cancer and is an attractive drug target. At the time of writing, no ", 
    "abstract": "The machine learning-based QSAR modeling procedure, molecular generations, and molecular dynamic simulations were applied to virtually screen the DNA polymerase theta inhibitors.\nThe DNA polymerase theta (Pol\u03b8 or POLQ) is an attractive target for treatments of homologous recombination deficient (such as BRCA deficient) cancers. There are no approved drugs for targeting POLQ, and only one inhibitor is in Phase \u2161clinical trials; thus, it is necessary to develop novel POLQ inhibitors.\nTo build machine learning models that predict the bioactivities of POLQ inhibitors. To build molecular generation models that generate diverse molecules. To virtually screen the generated molecules by the machine learning models. To analyze the binding modes of the screening results by molecular dynamic simulations.\nIn the present work, 325 inhibitors with POLQ polymerase domain bioactivities were Collected. Two machine learning methods, random forest and deep neural network, were used for building the ligand- and structure-based quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models. The substructure replacement-based method and transfer learning-based deep recurrent neural network method were used for molecular generations. Molecular docking and consensus QSAR models were carried out for virtual screening. The molecular dynamic simulations and MM/GBSA binding free energy calculation and decomposition were used to further analyze the screening results.\nThe MCC values of the best ligand- and structure-based consensus QSAR models reached 0.651 and 0.361 for the test set, respectively. The machine learning-based docking scores had better-predicted ability to distinguish the highly and weakly active poses than the original docking scores. The 96490 molecules were generated by both molecular generation methods, and 10 molecules were retained by virtual screening. Four favorable interactions were concluded by molecular dynamic simulations.\nWe hope that the screening results and the binding modes are helpful for designing the highly active POLQ polymerase inhibitors and the models of the molecular design workflow can be used as reliable tools for drug design.", 
    "abstract": "Thyroxine receptor beta (TR\u03b2) is a ligand-dependent nuclear receptor that participates in regulating multiple biological processes, particularly playing an important role in lipid metabolism regulation. TR\u03b2 is currently a popular therapeutic target for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), while no drugs have been approved to treat this disease. MGL-3196 (Resmetirom) is the first TR\u03b2 agonist that has succeeded in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of NASH; therefore, studying its molecular mechanism of action is of great significance. In this study, we employed molecular dynamic simulation to investigate the interaction mode between MGL-3196 and TR\u03b2 at the all-atom level. More importantly, by comparing the binding patterns of MGL-3196 in several prevalent TR\u03b2 mutants, it was identified that the mutations R243Q and H435R located, respectively, around and within the ligand-binding pocket of TR\u03b2 cause TR\u03b2 to be insensitive to MGL-3196. This indicates that patients with NASH carrying these two mutations may exhibit resistance to the medication of MGL-3196, thereby highlighting the potential impact of TR\u03b2 mutations on TR\u03b2-targeted treatment of NASH and beyond.", 
    "abstract": "The current study presents a comprehensive investigation on the precipitation reaction and supramolecular interactions between berberine hydrochloride (BBR) and baicalin (BA) in an aqueous system. Utilizing a combination of multi-spectral analytical techniques and molecular dynamic simulations, we elucidated the mechanism of the complexion process. The precipitate formation was observed within a drug concentration range of 0.1-1.0\u00a0mM, and a 1:1 stoichiometry ratio of BBR to BA was established by the Job's plot method. Morphological and structural characterizations of the precipitates were conducted using DSC, FTIR and PXRD. Additionally, UV-Vis absorption and ", 
    "abstract": "Leaf mass per area (LMA) is a key structural parameter that reflects the functional traits of leaves and plays a vital role in simulating the material and energy cycles of plant ecosystems. In this study, vertical whorl-by-whorl sampling of LMA was conducted in a young ", 
    "abstract": "Food supplements have become beneficial as adjuvant therapies for many chronic disorders, including cancer. Genistein, a natural isoflavone enriched in soybeans, has gained potential interest as an anticancer agent for various cancers, primarily by modulating apoptosis, the cell cycle, and angiogenesis and inhibiting metastasis. However, in lung cancer, the exact impact and mechanism of action of genistein still require clarification. To provide more insight into the mechanism of action of genistein, network pharmacology was employed to identify the key targets and their roles in lung cancer pathogenesis. Based on the degree score, the hub genes AKT1, CASP3, EGFR, STAT3, ESR1, SRC, PTGS2, MMP9, PRAG, and AR were significantly correlated with genistein treatment. AKT1, EGFR, and STAT3 were enriched in the non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) pathway according to Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis, indicating a significant connection to lung cancer development. Moreover, the binding affinity of genistein to NSCLC target proteins was further verified by molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations. Genistein exhibited potential binding to AKT1, which is involved in apoptosis, cell migration, and metastasis, thus holding promise for modulating AKT1 function. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the mechanism of action of genistein and its therapeutic potential for the treatment of NSCLC.", 
    "abstract": "Fractured reservoirs are an important source of oil and gas energy. After depletion of production, the production capacity of this reservoir decreases rapidly. Effective profile control is needed to improve the sweep efficiency and reservoir heterogeneity. Foam can solve such problems, but its profile control mechanism is not fully understood. Based on this, this paper uses the level set method to study the microscale control mechanism of foam in fractured media. The results show that artificial fractures and high-permeability microfractures are tighter than natural fractures, the Jamin effect of foam is stronger, and the secondary foaming ability is better. Therefore, the plugging ability of foam to natural fractures is far less than that of foam to artificial fractures and high-permeability microfractures. The larger the fracture opening, the larger the foam volume and the smaller the flow rate. As the opening ratio increases gradually, the generated foam flows more to the natural fractures with a large opening, and the effect of foam blocking large fractures becomes worse. The diversion rate curves of different opening ratios show that the foam has a good profile control effect when the opening ratios are 4:1 and 2:1, and even the diversion rate overturns, while the profile control diversion effect is poor when the opening ratio is 10:1, so it cannot play an effective role in profile control. The foam shows the profile control process of preferentially plugging the high-permeability area and allowing more subsequent fluids to enter the low-permeability area. The research reveals the profile control mechanism of foam on fractured reservoirs from the micro level, which is the supplement and verification of relevant macro research and provides a theoretical basis for the efficient development of fractured reservoirs.", 
    "abstract": "The current study addresses the growing demand for sustainable plant-based cheese alternatives by employing molecular docking and deep learning algorithms to optimize protein-ligand interactions. Focusing on key proteins (zein, soy, and almond protein) along with tocopherol and retinol, the goal was to improve texture, nutritional value, and flavor characteristics via dynamic simulations. The findings demonstrated that the docking analysis presented high accuracy in predicting conformational changes. Flexible docking algorithms provided insights into dynamic interactions, while analysis of energetics revealed variations in binding strengths. Tocopherol exhibited stronger affinity (-5.8Kcal/mol) to zein compared to retinol (-4.1Kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics simulations offered comprehensive insights into stability and behavior over time. The integration of machine learning algorithms improved the classification and the prediction accuracy, achieving a rate of 71.59%. This study underscores the significance of molecular understanding in driving innovation in the plant-based cheese industry, facilitating the development of sustainable alternatives to traditional dairy products.", 
    "abstract": "Marine oil spills directly cause polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) pollution and affect marine organisms due to their toxic property. Chemical and bio-based dispersants composed of surfactants and solvents are considered effective oil spill-treating agents. Dispersants enhance oil biodegradation in the marine environment by rapidly increasing their solubility in the water column. However, the effect of dispersants, especially surfactants, on PAHs degradation by enzymes produced by microorganisms has not been studied at the molecular level. The role of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme in converting contaminants into reactive metabolites during the biodegradation process has been evidenced, but the activity in the presence of surfactants is still ambiguous. Thus, this study focused on the evaluation of the impact of chemical and bio-surfactants (i.e., Tween 80 (TWE) and Surfactin (SUC)) on the biodegradation of naphthalene (NAP), chrysene (CHR), and pyrene (PYR), the representative components of PAHs, with CYP enzyme from microalgae Parachlorella kessleri using molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. The molecular docking analysis revealed that PAHs bound to residues at the CYP active site through hydrophobic interactions for biodegradation. The MD simulation showed that the surfactant addition changed the enzyme conformation in the CYP-PAH complexes to provide more interactions between the enzyme and PAHs. This led to an increase in the enzyme's capability to degrade PAHs. Binding free energy (\u0394G\u200c\u200c", 
    "abstract": "In order to alleviate the world energy resources crisis, the research and development of natural gas hydrates has a very important economic value and strategic significance. The CH", 
    "abstract": "The main issue with clinical infections is multidrug resistance to traditional antibiotics. As they are essential to innate immunity, shielding hosts from pathogenic microbes, traditional herbal remedies are an excellent supplier of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), vital parts of defensive systems. Nevertheless, little is known about the bioactive peptide components of most ethnobotanical species. Our goal in this study was to find new, likely AMPs from Portulaca oleracea (P. oleracea) using in silico studies. The P. oleracea transcriptome was gained from Sequence Read Archive (SRA) and quality controlled, then adapters and other low-quality reads were trimmed. Afterward, de novo assembled and translated open reading frames (ORFs) were determined. Next, the ORFs were filtered based on AMP physiochemical criteria and deep learning methods. Finally, the five selected putative AMPs docked with E. coli and S. aureus membranes that showed penetration in bilayers. In this step, PO2 was chosen as a candidate AMP to analyze with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Our data demonstrated that PO2 is more stable in E. coli than in S. aureus. Moreover, these predicted AMPs can be good candidates for in vitro and in vivo analysis.", 
    "abstract": "The shoulder joint has a high degree of freedom and an extremely complex and unstable kinematic mechanism. Coordinated contraction of the rotator cuff muscles that stop around the humeral head and the deltoid muscles and the extensibility of soft tissues, such as the joint capsule, labrum, and ligaments, contribute to shoulder-joint stability. Understanding the mechanics of shoulder-joint movement, including soft-tissue characteristics, is important for disease prevention and the development of a device for disease treatment. This study aimed to create a musculoskeletal shoulder model to represent the realistic behavior of joint movement and soft-tissue deformation as a dynamic simulation using a rigid-body model for bones and a soft-body model for soft tissues via a spring-damper-mass system. To reproduce the muscle-contraction properties of organisms, we used a muscle-expansion representation and Hill's mechanical muscle model. Shoulder motion, including the movement of the center of rotation in joints, was reproduced, and the strain in the joint capsule during dynamic shoulder movement was quantified. Furthermore, we investigated narrowing of the acromiohumeral distance in several situations to induce tissue damage due to rotator cuff impingement at the anterior-subacromial border during shoulder abduction. Given that the model can analyze exercises under disease conditions, such as muscle and tendon injuries and impingement syndrome, the proposed model is expected to help elucidate disease mechanisms and develop treatment guidelines.", 
    "abstract": "Simulating gut microbial dynamics is extremely challenging. Several computational tools, notably the widely used BacArena, enable modeling of dynamic changes in the microbial environment. These methods, however, do not comprehensively account for microbe-microbe stimulant or inhibitory effects or for nutrient-microbe inhibitory effects, typically observed in different compounds present in the daily diet.\nHere, we present BN-BacArena, an extension of BacArena\u00a0consisting on the incorporation within the native computational framework of a Bayesian network model that accounts for microbe-microbe and nutrient-microbe interactions. Using in vitro experiments, 16S rRNA gene sequencing data and nutritional composition of 55 foods, the output Bayesian network showed 23 significant nutrient-bacteria interactions, suggesting the importance of compounds such as polyols, ascorbic acid, polyphenols and other phytochemicals, and 40 bacteria-bacteria significant relationships. With test data, BN-BacArena demonstrates a statistically significant improvement over BacArena to predict the time-dependent relative abundance of bacterial species involved in the gut microbiota upon different nutritional interventions. As a result, BN-BacArena opens new avenues for the dynamic modeling and simulation of the human gut microbiota metabolism.\nMATLAB and R code are available in https://github.com/PlanesLab/BN-BacArena.", 
    "abstract": "Human Carbonic anhydrase IX (hCA IX) is found to be an essential biomarker for the treatment of hypoxic tumors in both the early and metastatic stages of cancer. Due to its active function in maintaining pH levels and overexpression in hypoxic conditions, hCA IX inhibitors can be a potential candidate specifically designed to target cancer development at various stages. In search of selective hCA IX inhibitors, we developed a pharmacophore model from the existing natural product inhibitors with IC", 
    "abstract": "Cancer is a serious threat to human life and social development and the use of scientific methods for cancer prevention and control is necessary. In this study, HQSAR, CoMFA, CoMSIA and TopomerCoMFA methods are used to establish models of 65 imidazo[4,5-", 
    "abstract": "Shale oil in China is widely distributed and has enormous resource potential. The pores of shale are at the nanoscale, and traditional research methods encounter difficulty in accurately describing the fluid flow mechanism, which has become a bottleneck restricting the industrial development of shale oil in China. To clarify the distribution and migration laws of fluid microstructure in shale nanopores, we constructed a heterogeneous inorganic composite shale model and explored the fluid behavior in different regions of heterogeneous surfaces. The results revealed the adsorption capacity for alkanes in the quartz region was stronger than that in the illite region. When the aperture was small, solid-liquid interactions dominated; as the aperture increased, the bulk fluid achieved a more uniform and higher flow rate. Under conditions of small aperture/low temperature/low pressure gradient, the quartz region maintained a negative slip boundary. Illite was more hydrophilic than quartz; when the water content was low, water molecules formed a \"liquid film\" on the illite surface, and the oil flux percentages in the illite and quartz regions were 87% and 99%, respectively. At 50% water content, the adsorbed water in the illite region reached saturation, the quartz region remained unsaturated, and the difference in the oil flux percentage of the two regions decreased. At 70% water content, the adsorbed water in the two regions reached a fully saturated state, and a layered structure of \"water-two-phase region-water\" was formed in the heterogeneous nanopore. This study is of great significance for understanding the occurrence characteristics and flow mechanism of shale oil within inorganic nanopores.", 
    "abstract": "SHP2 is a non-receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase to remove tyrosine phosphorylation. Functionally, SHP2 is an essential bridge to connect numerous oncogenic cell-signaling cascades including RAS-ERK, PI3K-AKT, JAK-STAT, and PD-1/PD-L1 pathways. This study aims to discover novel and potent SHP2 inhibitors using a hierarchical structure-based virtual screening strategy that combines molecular docking and the fragment molecular orbital method (FMO) for calculating binding affinity (referred to as the Dock-FMO protocol). For the SHP2 target, the FMO method prediction has a high correlation between the binding affinity of the protein-ligand interaction and experimental values (R\nAll the molecular docking studies were employed to identify potential leads with Maestro v10.1. The protein-ligand binding affinities of potential leads were further predicted by FMO calculations at MP2/6-31G* level using GAMESS v2020 system. MD simulations were carried out with AmberTools18 by applying the FF14SB force field. MD trajectories were analyzed using VMD v1.9.3. MM/GB(PB)SA binding free energy analysis was carried out with the mmpbsa.py tool of AmberTools18. The docking and MD simulation results were visualized through PyMOL v2.5.0.", 
    "abstract": "Cluster of differentiation 147 (CD147) is an attractive target for anticancer therapy since it is pivotal in developing and progressing several of malignant tumors in the context of its high expression levels. Although anti-CD147 antibodies by different laboratories are designed for the Ig-like domains of CD147, there is a demand to provide priority among these anti-CD147 antibodies for developing of therapeutic anti-CD147 antibody before experimental validations. This study uses molecular docking and dynamic simulation techniques to compare the binding modes and affinities of nine antibody models against the Ig-like domains of CD147. After obtaining the model antibodies by homology modeling via Robetta, we predicted the CDRs of nine antibodies and the epitopes of CD147 to reach more accurate results for antigen affinity in molecular docking. Next, from HADDOCK 2.4., we meticulously handpicked the most superior model clusters (Z-Score: -\u20092.5 to -\u20091.2) and identified that meplazumab had higher affinities according to the success rate as the percentage of a scoring scale. We achieved stable simulations of CD147-antibody interaction. Our outcomes hold hypothetical importance for further experimental cancer research on the design and development of the relevant model antibodies.", 
    "abstract": "Bovine serum albumin (BSA) has emerged as a biomarker for mammary gland health and cow quality, being recognized as a significant allergenic protein. In this study, a novel flexible molecular imprinted electrochemical sensor by surface electropolymerization using pyrrole (Py) as functional monomer, which can be better applied to the detection of milk quality marker BSA. Based on computational results, with regard to all polypyrrole (PPy) conformations and amino-acid positions within the protein, the BSA molecule remained firmly embedded into PPy polymers with no biological changes. The molecular imprinted electrochemical sensor displayed a broad linear detection range from 1.0\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010", 
    "abstract": "Tuberculosis, also known as TB, is a widespread bacterial infection that remains a significant global health issue. This study focuses on conducting a thorough investigation into the synthesis, evaluation of anti-Tb activity, molecular docking, and molecular dynamic simulation of substituted benzimidazole derivatives. A series of twelve substituted benzimidazole derivatives (", 
    "abstract": "Spatial simulation and projection of ecosystem services value (ESV) changes caused by urban growth are important for sustainable development in arid regions. We developed a new model of cellular automata based grasshopper optimization algorithm (named GOA-CA) for simulating urban growth patterns and assessing the impacts of urban growth on ESV changes under climate change scenarios. The results show that GOA-CA yielded overall accuracy exceeding 98%, and FOM for 2010 and 2020 were 43.2% and 38.1%, respectively, indicating the effectiveness of the model. The prairie lost the highest economic ESVs (192 million USD) and the coniferous yielded the largest economic ESV increase (292 million USD) during 2000-2020. Using climate change scenarios as urban future land use demands, we projected three scenarios of the urban growth of Urumqi for 2050 and their impacts on ESV. Our model can be easily applied to simulating urban development, analyzing its impact on ESV and projecting future scenarios in global arid regions.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD), is characterized by a progressive loss of cognitive abilities as well as behavioral symptoms including disorientation, trouble solving problems, personality and mood changes. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is a promising target for symptomatic improvement in AD due to its consistent and early cholinergic deficit. This research has investigated the potential compounds from ", 
    "abstract": "Huperzine A (HUP) plays a crucial role in Alzheimer's therapy by enhancing cognitive function through increased cholinergic activity as a reversible acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. Despite some limitations being seen in AChE inhibitors, ongoing research remains dedicated to finding innovative and more effective treatments for Alzheimer's disease. To achieve the goal of the discovery of potential HUP analogues with improved physicochemical properties, less toxic properties, and high biological activity, many in silico methods were applied. Based on the acetylcholinesterase-ligand complex, an e-pharmacophore model was developed. Subsequently, a virtual screening involving a collection of 1762 natural compounds, sourced from the PubChem database, was performed. This screening yielded 131 compounds that exhibited compatibility with the established pharmacophoric hypothesis. These selected ligands were then subjected to molecular docking within the active site of the 4EY5 receptor. As a result, we identified four compounds that displayed remarkable docking scores and exhibited low free binding energy to the target. These top four compounds, CID_162895946, CID_44461278, CID_44285285, and CID_81108419, were submitted to ADMET prediction and molecular dynamic simulations, yielding encouraging findings in terms of their pharmacokinetic characteristics and stability. Finally, the molecular dynamic simulation, cross-dynamic correlation matrix, free energy landscape, and MM-PBSA calculations demonstrated that two ligands from the selected ligands formed very resilient complexes with the enzyme acetylcholinesterase, with significant binding affinity. Therefore, these two compounds are recommended for further experimental research as possible (AChE) inhibitors.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The COVID-19 pandemic began in 2019 as a result of the advent of a novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. At present, there are a limited number of approved antiviral agents for the treatment of COVID-19. Remdesivir, Molnupiravir, and Paxlovid have been approved by the FDA to treat COVID-19 infections. Research has shown that the main protease enzyme (Mpro) of SARS-CoV-2 plays a crucial role in the enzymatic processing of viral polyproteins. This makes Mpro an interesting therapeutic target for combating infections caused by emerging coronaviruses.\nThe pharmacological effects of pyrroles and their derivatives have a wide range of applications. In our study, we focused on synthesizing nine novel derivatives of 2-arylamino-dihydro-indeno[1,2-b] pyrrol-4(1H)-one, with a particular emphasis on their antiviral properties. Using in silico studies involving molecular docking and DFT analyses in the gas phase using the B3LYP/6-31++G(d,p) basis set, we studied these compounds with respect to their interactions with the Mpro of SARS-CoV-2. The results of the docking analysis revealed that the synthesized compounds exhibited favorable inhibitory effects. Notably, compound 5f demonstrated the highest effectiveness against the target protein. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetic and drug-like properties of the synthesized derivatives of 2-arylamino-dihydroindeno[1,2-b] pyrrol-4(1H)-one indicated their potential as promising candidates for further development as inhibitors targeting SARS-CoV-2. However, it is imperative to determine the in vitro efficacy of these compounds through comprehensive biochemical and structural analyses.", 
    "abstract": "A novel coronavirus has caused major health problems and is spreading globally. The main protease enzyme plays a significant role in the number of copies of ss-RNA produced during the proteolytic cleavage of polypeptides. This work aims to find possible dual inhibitors of the 3-Chymotrypsin-like proteases PDB-6W63 and 6LU7 which increase efficiency and faster inhibition activity. By using an in-silico technique, polyphenols are molecularly docked against these targets to inhibit protease enzymes. Some polyphenols, such as pelargonidin and naringin, have significant dual inhibition characteristics with remarkable binding affinities with active scaffolds of both proteins, which have important ADMET parameters. These organic molecules are strongly bonded with amino acids of protein ", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease, a progressive neurological disorder, is characterized by the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques by Tau and amyloid-\u03b2, respectively, in the brain microenvironment. The misfolded protein aggregates interact with several components of neuronal and glial cells such as membrane lipids, receptors, transporters, enzymes, cytoskeletal proteins, etc. Under pathological conditions, Tau interacts with several G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which undergoes either receptor signaling or desensitization followed by internalization of the protein complex. The purinergic GPCR, P2Y12 which is expressed in microglial cells, plays a key role in its activation and migration. Microglial cells sense and migrate to the site of injury aided by P2Y12 receptor that interacts with ADP released from damaged cells. P2Y12 receptor also interacts with misfolded Tau accumulated at the extracellular space and promotes receptor-mediated internalization. Immunocolocalization and co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated the interaction of Tau species with the P2Y12 receptor. Later, in-silico analyses were carried out with the repeat domain of Tau (Tau", 
    "abstract": "The SARS-CoV-2 virus and its mutations have affected human health globally and created significant danger for the health of people all around the world. To cure this virus, the human Angiotensin Converting Enzyme-2 (ACE2) receptor, the SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro), and spike proteins were found to be likely candidates for the synthesis of novel therapeutic drug. In the past, proteins were capable of engaging in interaction with a wide variety of ligands, including both manmade and plant-derived small molecules. ", 
    "abstract": "We provide promising computational (in silico) data on phytochemicals (compounds ", 
    "abstract": "Mitochondrial disorders are a heterogeneous group of disorders caused by mutations in the mitochondrial DNA or in nuclear genes encoding the mitochondrial proteins and subunits. Polymerase Gamma (POLG) is a nuclear gene and mutation in the POLG gene are one of the major causes of inherited mitochondrial disorders. In this study, 15 pediatric patients, with a wide spectrum of clinical phenotypes were screened using blood samples (n\u00a0=\u00a015) and muscle samples (n\u00a0=\u00a04). Respiratory chain enzyme analysis in the muscle samples revealed multi-complex deficiencies with Complex I deficiency present in (1/4) patients, Complex II (2/4), Complex III (3/4) and Complex IV (2/4) patients. Multiple large deletions were observed in 4/15 patients using LR-PCR. Whole exome sequencing (WES) revealed a compound heterozygous mutation consisting of a POLG1 novel variant (NP_002684.1:p.Trp261X) and a missense variant (NP_002684.1:p. Leu304Arg) in one patient and another patient harboring a novel homozygous POLG1 variant (NP_002684.1:p. Phe750Val). These variants (NP_002684.1:p. Leu304Arg) and (NP_002684.1:p. Phe750Val) and their interactions with DNA were modelled using molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation studies. The protein conformation was analyzed as root mean square deviation (RMSD), root mean square fluctuation (RMSF) which showed local fluctuations in the mutants compared to the wildtype. However, Solvent Accessible Surface Area (SASA) significantly increased for NP_002684.1:p.Leu304Arg and decreased in NP_002684.1:p.Phe750Val mutants. Further, Contact Order analysis indicated that the Aromatic-sulfur interactions were destabilizing in the mutants. Overall, these in-silico analysis has revealed a destabilizing mutations suggesting pathogenic variants in POLG1 gene.", 
    "abstract": "Although utilizing nanomaterial-modified electrodes for lead ion detection has achieved great success, most of them are carried out under acidic conditions and ignore the variation of Pb(II) speciation at different pH conditions, leading to the potential inaccuracy of Pb(II) detection in a neutral natural water environment. Thus, designing a novel catalyst with high accuracy for the detection of various forms of the total amount of Pb(II) (Pb", 
    "abstract": "During robot-assisted reduction of pelvic fracture, blood vessels are susceptible to tensile and shear forces, making them prone to injury. Considering the impact of pelvic reduction on the risk of arterial injury, the biomechanical characteristics of arteries during the pelvic fracture reduction process are studied, and a refined coupled composite model of the damaged pelvic structure is established. Dynamic simulations of pelvic fracture reduction are conducted based on the planned reduction path. The simulation results show that during the reduction process, when the affected side is rotated, the stress and strain of the artery are maximum, particularly at the locations of the iliac common artery, internal iliac artery, and the superior gluteal artery arch endure significant stress and strain. After reduction, the maximum stress is observed in the right superior gluteal artery, and the maximum strain occurs at the intersection of the right iliac common artery. The stretch ratio of both the left and right iliac common arteries is considerable. Therefore, it can be concluded that the superior gluteal artery and the internal iliac artery are prone to injury, particularly the segment from the origin of the superior gluteal artery to its passage around the greater sciatic notch. After reduction, substantial traction on the iliac common artery, which makes it more susceptible to deformation, carries a risk of arterial rupture and aneurysm formation. This study provides a reference for planning the safe reduction path of pelvic fracture surgery and improving safety.", 
    "abstract": "\u03b1-Glucanotransferases of the CAZy family GH70 convert starch-derived donors to industrially important \u03b1-glucans. Here, we describe characteristics of a novel GtfB-type 4,6-\u03b1-glucanotransferase of high enzyme activity (60.8 U mg", 
    "abstract": "Inflammation plays a pivotal role in various pathological processes, ranging from routine injuries and infections to cancer. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) are two major enzymes involved in the formation of lipid mediators of inflammation, such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes, through the arachidonic acid pathway. Despite the frequent use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for managing inflammatory disorders by inhibiting these enzymes, there is a wide spectrum of adverse effects linked to their usage. Jeevaneeya Rasayana (JR), a polyherbal formulation traditionally used in India, is renowned for its anti-inflammatory properties. The present study aimed to identify the potential phytocompounds in JR plants against COX-2 and 5-LOX, utilizing molecular docking and dynamic simulations. Among the 429 identified phytocompounds retrieved from publicly available data sources, Terrestribisamide and 1-(9Z-octadecenoyl)-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine have shown potential binding affinity and favorable interactions with COX-2 and 5-LOX arachidonic acid binding sites. The physicochemical properties and ADMET profiles of these compounds determined their drug-likeness and pharmacokinetics features. Additional validation using molecular dynamics simulations, SASA, Rg, and MM-PBSA binding energy calculations affirmed the stability of the complex formed between those compounds with target proteins. Together, the study identified the effectual binding potential of those bioactive compounds against COX-2 and 5-LOX, providing a viable approach for the development of effective anti-inflammatory medications.", 
    "abstract": "This study investigates the interaction of polyacrylamide (PAM) of different functional groups (sulfonate vs. carboxylate) and charge density (30% hydrolysed vs. 10% hydrolysed) with calcium carbonate (CaCO", 
    "abstract": "To realize the high-value utilization of Rushan cheese by-product, Rushan cheese whey was used as a raw material to prepare angiotensin-\u2160-converting enzyme inhibitory peptides (ACEIPs). After enzymatic hydrolysisn and ultrafiltration, the sequences of peptides were identified by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Two novel ACE inhibitory peptides Phe-Asp-Arg-Pro-Phe-Leu (FDRPFL) and Lys-Trp-Glu-Lys-Pro-Phe (KWEKPF) were identified. Additionally, both of the peptides exhibited good water-solubility and no toxicity according to ", 
    "abstract": "Polysaccharides have been widely used in the development of natural drugs and health food. However, polysaccharide characterization lags due to inherently complicated features and the limitations of existing detection approaches. We aimed to provide new insight into the fine structure and conformational visualization of polysaccharides from Gastrodia elata Blume, a medicinal and edible plant. A water-soluble polysaccharide (GEP2-6) with the high molecular weight of 2.7\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010", 
    "abstract": "Wedelolactone (WEL) is a small molecule compound isolated from Eclipta prostrate L., which has been reported to possess various biological activities such as anti-hepatotoxicity, anti-hypertension, anti-tumour, anti-phospholipase A2 and detoxification activity against snake venom. In the present study, we investigated the interaction of WEL with human serum albumin (HSA) using simultaneous fluorescence, UV-visible spectroscopy, 3D fluorescence spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), molecular docking technique and molecular dynamics simulation. We found that the interaction between HSA and WEL can exhibit a static fluorescence burst mechanism, and the binding process is essentially spontaneous, with the main forces manifested as hydrogen bonding, van der Waals force and electrostatic interactions. Competitive binding and molecular docking studies showed that WEL preferentially bound to HSA in substructural region IIA (site I); molecular dynamics simulations showed that HSA interacted with WEL to form a stable complex, which also induced conformational changes in HSA. The study of the interaction between WEL and HSA can provide a reference for a more in-depth study of the pharmacodynamic mechanism of WEL and its further development and utilisation.", 
    "abstract": "The interface of Hsp70-Bim protein-protein interaction (PPI) has been identified as a specific target for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) therapy and the specific inhibitors were developed to exhibit in vivo anti-leukemia activities. Herein, we explored the binding mechanism of a Hsp70-Bim inhibitor, 6-(cyclohexylthio)-3-((2-morpholinoethyl) amino)-1-oxo-1H-phenalene-2-carbonitrile (S1g-6), to Hsp70 at the atomic level by MD simulation. TYR-149, THR-222, ALA-223, and GLY-224 on Hsp70 were identified as four key residues that contribute to Hsp70/S1g-6 complex. Moreover, the site mutation validation demonstrated the TYR-149 of Hsp70 is a \"hot-spot\" in the Hsp70-Bim PPI interface. These results could benefit the design of further inhibitors to occupy the Bim binding site on the Hsp70 surface.\nThe binding mechanism of S1g-6 and Hsp70 was predicted through the molecular dynamics (MD) method by Gromacs-2021.3. The MD simulation was performed with 100-ps NVT and 100-ps NPT ensemble, and the force field was chosen as the Charmm36 force field. The temperature was set as 300\u00a0K, the time step was 2\u00a0fs and the total MD simulation time was 500\u00a0ns.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "This study was conducted to test the efficacy of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) as an anticancer drug against the human pyruvate kinase isozyme M2 (PKM2) using spectroscopic, molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation studies. PKM2 fluorescence quenching studies in the presence of 5-FU performed at three different temperatures indicates dynamic quenching processes with single-set of binding (", 
    "abstract": "The thermal conductivities and glass transition temperatures of polybutadiene crosslinked with randomly distributed sulfur chains having different lengths from mono-sulfur (S1) to octa-sulfur (S8) were investigated. The thermal conductivities of the related models as a function of the heat flux autocorrelation function, applying an equilibrium molecular dynamic (EMD) simulation and the Green-Kubo method, were studied for a wide range of temperatures. The influence of the length of sulfur chains, degree of crosslinking, and molar mass of the crosslinker on the glass transition temperature and final values of thermal conductivities were studied. First, the degree of crosslinking is considered constant for the eight simulation models, from mono-sulfur (S1) to octa-sulfur (S8), while the molar mass of the sulfur is increases. The results show that the thermal conductivities of the crosslinked structure decrease with increasing temperature for each model. Moreover, by increasing the lengths of the sulfur chains and the molar weight of the crosslinker, thermal conductivity increases at a constant temperature. The MD simulation demonstrates that the glass transition temperature and density of the crosslinked structure enhance as the length of the sulfur chains and molar mass of the sulfur increase. Second, the molar weight of sulfur is considered constant in these eight models; therefore, the degree of crosslinking decreases with the increase in the lengths of the sulfur chains. The results show that the thermal conductivities of the crosslinked structure decrease with the increase in the temperature for each model. Moreover, by increasing the lengths of sulfur chains and thus decreasing the degree of crosslinking, the trend in changes in thermal conductivities are almost the same for all of these models, so thermal conductivity is constant for a specific temperature. In addition, the glass transition temperature and density of the crosslinked structure decrease.", 
    "abstract": "The ecological security of oasis cities in arid and semi-arid regions is highly susceptible to changes in regional landscape patterns and the degree of coordination between human activities and the environment. At the same time, the ecological security of urban landscapes also profoundly affects the success of regional economic and environmental coordination and development. This study is based on land use data from 1990, 2000, 2010, and 2020, as well as land use data from the natural development scenario (NLD), economic development scenario (ECD), ecological development scenario (ELD) and ecological-economic development scenario (EED) simulated by the patch-generating land use simulation (PLUS) model in 2030. From the perspective of production-living-ecological land (PLEL), it analyzes the changes in the past and future landscape ecological security and coupling coordination characteristics of Bole. The results show that from 1990 to 2020, Bole was mainly dominated by grassland ecological land (GEL) and other ecological land (OEL), accounting for a total proportion of 69.51%, with a large increase in production and living land area; the average value of landscape ecological risk is decreasing, and the landscape ecological security of Bole is developing towards benignity; the area of highly coupled coordination zone is decreasing continuously, while that of basic coordination zone and moderate coordination zone is increasing continuously. Under the 2030 EED scenario, the overall changes in various types of land use are not significant, and the average value of landscape ecological risk is the smallest, but it is higher than that in 2020 as a whole; under EED scenario, the area of highly coordinated zone and moderate coordinated zone is the largest among four scenarios, and the best coupling coordination level among the four scenarios. Landscape ecological security and its coupling coordination will be affected by land use patterns. Optimizing regional land use patterns is of great significance for improving urban landscape ecological security and sustainable high-quality development.", 
    "abstract": "Unconventional water constitutes the fundamental approach to addressing global water scarcity and achieving the sustainable circulation of water resources. Due to the significant environmental advantages and economical production costs, reclaimed water has emerged as a preeminent unconventional source. However, the use in China confronts the predicament of oversupply relative to demand, requiring policy measures to overcome this challenge. Limited research exists on the combined impact of subsidies and water quality information disclosure supervision on reclaimed water utilization, potentially underestimating the practical incentivizing role of water quality information disclosure. Therefore, based on the framework of 'external environment-perceived value-utilization intention,' a multi-agent-based simulation model driven by evolutionary game theory is constructed, from micro to macro perspective, to investigate the composite effects of subsidies and water quality information disclosure supervision on public intentions for reclaimed water utilization and the evolutionary track of public decision-making. The results showed that (1) The influence of subsidies on the public's inclination toward reclaimed water has regional heterogeneity. In regions with average economic development, the subsidy policy shows an inverted U-shaped correlation with the public's intention to reclaimed water, indicating the presence of an optimal value for maximizing the promotional effect of subsidies. Conversely, the effect is less discernible in regions with higher economic development. (2) In regions with average economic development, supervision of information disclosure behavior can avert the diminishing incentivizing effects under radical subsidies, but the assistance of various supervision intensities is different. (3) In regions with higher economic development, the incentive effect of subsidies can be positively modulated by the supervision policy. Interactions between subsidy and supervision policies evoke diverse chain reactions under varying intensities in these regions, and the combination of moderate subsidies and high supervision emerges as the most optimal strategy to advance reclaimed water development.", 
    "abstract": "Medicinal plants play an important role as antimicrobials by inhibiting various key targets of diverse microorganisms. A major antimicrobial component of plants is its essential oil, which are increasingly being studied for their antimicrobial properties as well as for their potential role in the inhibition of biofilm formation. In the present study, essential oil from ", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) ranks as the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder with dementia and it accounts for more than 70% of all cases. Despite extensive reporting on the experimental investigation of ", 
    "abstract": "Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors can effectively inhibit the activity of DPP4, increasing the concentrations of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), which allows for them to effectively contribute to the reduction of blood sugar levels. Leu-Pro-Ala-Val-Thr-Ile-Arg (LPAVTIR) and Leu-Pro-Pro-Glu-His-Asp-Trp-Arg (LPPEHDWR) were the two peptides with the strongest inhibitory activity against DPP4 selected from silkworm pupa proteins. In this study, four systems were established: Apo (ligand-free DPP4), IPI (IPI-bound DPP4), LPAVTIR (LPAVTIR-bound DPP4), LPPEHDWR (LPPEHDWR-bound DPP4), and Gaussian accelerated molecular dynamic (GaMD) simulation was conducted to investigate the mechanism of action of two inhibitory peptides binding to DPP4. Our study revealed that the LPAVTIR peptide possessed a more stable structure and exhibited a tighter binding to the Ser630 active site in DPP4, thus exhibiting a favorable competitive inhibition effect. In contrast, the LPPEHDWR peptide caused the horizontal \u03b1-helix (residues 201-215) composed of Glu205 and Glu206 residues in DPP4 to disappear. The spatial arrangement of active sites Ser630 relative to Glu205 and Glu206 was disrupted, resulting in enzyme inactivation. Moreover, the size of the substrate channel and cavity volume was significantly reduced after the binding of the inhibitory peptide to the protein, which was an important factor in the inhibition of the enzyme activity. A similar effect was also found from IPI (our positive control). By stabilizing the active site of DPP4, the IPI peptide induced the disappearance of the horizontal \u03b1-helix and a notable reduction in the active cavity volume. In conclusion, our study provided a solid theoretical foundation for the inhibitory mechanisms of IPI, LPAVTIR, and LPPEHDWR on DPP4, offering valuable insights for advancing the development of drug targets for type 2 diabetes.", 
    "abstract": "Regional mental health planning is a key challenge for decision makers because mental health care is a complex, dynamic system. Economic evaluation using a system dynamics modelling approach presents an opportunity for more sophisticated planning and important evidence on the value of alternative investments. We aimed to investigate the cost-effectiveness of eight systems-based interventions targeted at improving the mental health and wellbeing of children, adolescents, and young adults in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).\nWe assessed eight interventions for children and young people (aged \u226425 years) with low, moderate, and high-to-very-high psychological distress: technology-enabled integrated care, emergency department-based suicide prevention, crisis response service, family education programme, online parenting programme, school-based suicide prevention programme, trauma service for youths, and multicultural-informed care. We developed a system dynamics model for the ACT through a participatory process and calibrated the model with historical data, including population demographics, the prevalence of psychological distress, and mental health services provision. We calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios compared with business as usual for cost (AU$) per: quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), suicide death avoided, self-harm related hospital admissions avoided, and mental health-related emergency department presentation, using a 10-year time horizon for health-care and societal perspectives. We investigated uncertainty through probabilistic sensitivity analysis and deterministic sensitivity analysis, including using a 30-year timeframe.\nFrom a societal perspective, increased investment in technology-enabled integrated care, family education, an online parenting programme, and multicultural-informed care were expected to improve health outcomes (incremental QALYs 4517 [95% UI -3135 to 14 507] for technology-enabled integrated care; 339 [91 to 661] for family education; 724 [114 to 1149] for the online parenting programme; and 137 [88 to 194] for multicultural-informed care) and reduce costs ($-91\u00b74 million [-382\u00b77 to 100\u00b77]; $-12\u00b78 million [-21\u00b70 to -6\u00b76]; $-3\u00b76 million\u2008 [-6\u00b73 to 0\u00b72]; and $-3\u00b71 million [-4\u00b75 to -1\u00b78], respectively) compared with business as usual using a 10-year time horizon. The incremental net monetary benefit for the societal perspective for these four interventions was $452 million (-351 to 1555), $40 million (14 to 74), $61 million (9 to 98), and $14 million (9 to 20), respectively, compared with business as usual, when QALYs were monetised using a willingness to pay of $79\u2008930 per QALY. Synergistic effects are anticipated if these interventions were to be implemented concurrently. The univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses indicated a high level of certainty in the results. Although emergency department-based suicide prevention and school-based suicide prevention were not cost effective in the base case (41 QALYs [0 to 48], incremental cost $4\u00b71 million [1\u00b72 to 8\u00b72] for emergency department-based suicide prevention; -234 QALYs [-764 to 12], incremental cost $90\u00b73 million [72\u00b72 to 111\u00b70] for school-based suicide prevention) compared with business as usual, there were scenarios for which these interventions could be considered cost effective. A dedicated trauma service for young people (9 QALYs gained [4 to 16], incremental cost $8\u00b73 million [6\u00b78 to 10\u00b70]) and a crisis response service (-11 QALYs gained [-12 to -10], incremental cost $7\u00b78 million [5\u00b71 to 11\u00b70]) were unlikely to be cost effective in terms of QALYs.\nSynergistic effects were identified, supporting the combined implementation of technology-enabled integrated care, family education, an online parenting programme, and multicultural-informed care. Synergistic effects, emergent outcomes in the form of unintended consequences, the capability to account for service capacity constraints, and ease of use by stakeholders are unique attributes of a system dynamics modelling approach to economic evaluation.\nBHP Foundation.", 
    "abstract": "The oxidation of unsaturated lipids, facilitated by the enzyme Arachidonic acid 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), is an essential element in the development of ferroptosis. This study combined a dual-score exclusion strategy with high-throughput virtual screening, naive Bayesian and recursive partitioning machine learning models, the already established ALOX15 inhibitor i472, and a docking-based fragment substitution optimisation approach to identify potential ALOX15 inhibitors, ultimately leading to the discovery of three FDA-approved drugs that demonstrate optimal inhibitory potential against ALOX15. Through fragment substitution-based optimisation, seven new inhibitor structures have been developed. To evaluate their practicality, ADMET predictions and molecular dynamics simulations were performed. In conclusion, the compounds found in this study provide a novel approach to combat conditions related to ferroptosis-related injury by inhibiting ALOX15.", 
    "abstract": "This paper leverages the OpenSim physics-based simulation environment for the forward dynamic simulation of an osseointegrated transfemoral amputee musculoskeletal model, wearing a generic prosthesis. A deep reinforcement learning architecture, which combines the proximal policy optimization algorithm with imitation learning, is designed to enable the model to walk by using three different observation states. The first is a complete state that includes the agent's kinematics, ground reaction forces, and muscle data; the second is a reduced state that only includes the kinematics and ground reaction forces; the third is an augmented state that combines the kinematics and ground reaction forces with a prediction of the muscle data generated by a fully-connected feed-forward neural network. The empirical results demonstrate that the model trained with the augmented observation state can achieve walking patterns with rewards and gait symmetry ratings comparable to those of the model trained with the complete observation state, while there are no symmetric walking patterns when using the reduced observation state. This paper shows the importance of including muscle data in a deep reinforcement learning architecture for the forward dynamic simulation of musculoskeletal models of transfemoral amputees.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to investigate the chemical composition and antibacterial properties of the essential oil (EO) derived from the aerial parts of ", 
    "abstract": "Substrate-catalyzed growth offers a highly promising approach for the controlled synthesis of carbon nanostructures. However, the growth mechanisms on dynamic catalytic surfaces and the development of more general design strategies remain ongoing challenges. Here we show how an active machine-learning model effectively reveals the microscopic processes involved in substrate-catalyzed growth. Utilizing a synergistic approach of molecular dynamics and time-stamped force-biased Monte Carlo methods, augmented by the Gaussian Approximation Potential, we perform fully dynamic simulations of graphene growth on Cu(111). Our findings accurately replicate essential subprocesses-from the preferred diffusion of carbon monomer/dimer, chain or ring formations to edge-passivated Cu-aided graphene growth and bond breaks by ion impacts. Extending our simulations to carbon deposition on metal surfaces like Cu(111), Cr(110), Ti(001), and oxygen-contaminated Cu(111), our results align closely with experimental observations, providing a practical and efficient approach for designing metallic or alloy substrates to achieve desired carbon nanostructures and explore further reaction possibilities.", 
    "abstract": "An in-depth analysis of the urban flood disaster level in response to different rainfall characteristics and Low Impact Development (LID) measures is of significant importance for addressing unfavorable management conditions and implementing effective flood control measures. This study proposes a dynamic urban flood simulation framework based on the Storm Water Management Model (SWMM) and Geographic Information System (GIS) spatial analysis, incorporating an active inundation seed search algorithm. The framework is calibrated and validated using nine historical urban flood events. Subsequently, the impact of rainfall patterns on urban inundation under LID measures is analyzed based on the dynamic urban flood simulation framework. The results show that the urban flood simulation framework exhibits good applicability, with Nash-Sutcliffe Efficiency (NSE) values of 0.825 and 0.763 during the calibration and validation periods, respectively. The extent of inundation shows little variation for rainfall events with a return period greater than 20 years, and the location of flooding is minimally affected by rainfall patterns. LID measures have a decreasing effect on urban inundation control as the return period of rainfall increases, and there are variations in hydrological responses to different rainfall patterns under the same return period. For single-peak rainfall events with the same return period, the control rates of inundation volume, flow, and infiltration decrease as the rainfall peak coefficient increases, indicating a weakening effect of LID measures on flood control with increasing rainfall peak coefficient. Under the same return period conditions, LID measures exhibit the best runoff control effect for uniform rainfall, while their effectiveness is lower for double-peak rainfall events and single-peak rainfall events with an r\u00a0=\u00a00.75 coefficient. The findings of this study provide a theoretical basis for urban flood warning and management of Low Impact Development measures.", 
    "abstract": "Colorectal cancer (CRC) is considered the second deadliest cancer in the world. One of the reasons for the occurrence of this cancer is the deregulation of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which plays a critical role in regulating cell division, persistence, differentiation, and migration. The overexpression of the EGFR protein leads to its dysregulation and causes CRC.\nHence, this work aims to identify and validate novel EGFR inhibitors for the treatment of colorectal cancer employing various computer aided techniques such as pharmacophore modeling, docking, molecular dynamic simulation and Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship (QSAR) analysis.\nIn this work, a shared-featured ligand-based pharmacophore model was generated using the known inhibitors of EGFR. The best model was validated and screened against ZincPharmer and Maybridge databases, and 143 hits were obtained. Pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of these hits were studied, and the acceptable ligands were docked against EGFR. The best five protein-ligand complexes with binding energy less than -5 kcal/mol were selected. The molecular dynamic simulation studies of these complexes were conducted for 100 nanoseconds (ns), and the results were analyzed. The biological activity of this ligand was calculated using QSAR analysis.\nThe best complex with Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD) 3.429 \u00c5 and Radius of Gyration (RoG) 20.181 \u00c5 was selected. The Root Mean Square Fluctuations (RMSF) results were also found to be satisfactory. The biological activity of this ligand was found to be 1.38 \u03bcM.\nThis work hereby proposes the ligand 2-((1,6-dimethyl-4-oxo-1,4-dihydropyridin-3-yl)oxy)-N- (1H-indol-4-yl)acetamide as a potential EGFR inhibitor for the treatment of colorectal cancer. The wet lab analysis must be conducted, however, to confirm this hypothesis.", 
    "abstract": "1,3,4-Thiadiazoles are structures that are bioisosteres of 1,3,4-oxadiazole and pyrimidine ring, which are found in the structure of many drugs and anticancer active newly studied derivatives. In the past, high effect profiles have been observed in many molecules created, based on the anticancer effects of the 2-amino-1,3,4-thiadiazole (NSC 4728) molecule and acetazolamide molecules. Focusing on these molecules and evaluating them in terms of mechanistic effects, twelve new ", 
    "abstract": "This study uses molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and experiments to explore the interaction between titanium dioxide (TiO", 
    "abstract": "The three dimensional structure of a protein is very important for its structure. Studies relating to protein structure have been numerous and the effect of denaturants on proteins can help understand the process of protein folding and misfolding. Detergents are important denaturants and play important roles in various fields. Here we explored the effect of sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) on the structure of peanut agglutinin (PNA). The protein was purified from its natural source and impact of SDS and CTAB was studied by circular dichroism, intrinsic fluorescence, 8-anilino-1-napthalenesulfonic acid, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation. Pure peanut agglutinin showed a trough at 220\u2009nm and positive ellipticity peak at 195\u2009nm, specific for lectins. Results from the experimental and simulation studies suggest how oppositely charged detergents can interact differently and lead to varied structural perturbations in PNA. Both the surfactants induce all \u03b1 protein-like circular dichroism in the protein, above its critical micelle concentrations, with significant change in accessible surface area that became more hydrophobic upon the treatment. Major interactions between the surfactants and protein, resulting in PNA conformational rearrangement, are electrostatic and van der Waals interactions. However, CTAB, a cationic surfactant, has similar effects as anionic surfactant (SDS) but at significantly very low concentration. Though the effects followed same pattern in both the surfactant treatment, i.e. above respective CMC, the surfactants were inducing all \u03b1 protein-like conformation in PNA.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Sinapic acid is a hydroxycinnamic acid widespread in the plant kingdom, known to be a potent anti-oxidant used for the treatment of cancer, infections, oxidative stress, and inflammation. However, the mode of action for its chemotherapeutic properties has yet not been unleashed. Hence, we aimed to identify potential targets to propose a possible molecular mechanism for sinapic acid against breast cancer. We utilized multiple system biology tools and databases like DisGeNET, DIGEP-Pred, Cytoscape, STRING, AutoDock 4.2, AutoDock vina, Schrodinger, and gromacs to predict a probable molecular mechanism for sinapic acid against breast cancer. Targets for the disease breast cancer, were identified via DisGeNET database which were further matched with proteins predicted to be modulated by sinapic acid. In addition, KEGG pathway analysis was used to identify pathways; a protein-pathway network was constructed via Cytoscape. Molecular docking was performed using three different algorithms followed by molecular dynamic simulations and MMPBSA analysis. Moreover, cluster analysis and gene ontology\u00a0(GO) analysis were performed. A total of 6776 targets were identified for breast cancer; 95.38% of genes predicted to be modulated by sinapic acid were common with genes of breast cancer. The\u00a0'Pathways in cancer' was predicted to be modulated by most umber of proteins. Further, PRKCA, CASP8, and CTNNB1 were predicted to be the top 3 hub genes. In addition, molecular docking studies revealed CYP3A4, CYP1A1, and SIRT1 to be the lead proteins identified from AutoDock 4.2, AutoDock Vina, and Schrodinger suite Glide respectively. Molecular dynamic simulation and MMPBSA were performed for the complex of sinapic acid with above mentioned proteins which revealed a stable complex throughout simulation. The predictions revealed that the mechanism of sinapic acid in breast cancer may be due to regulation of\u00a0multiple proteins like CTNNB1, PRKCA, CASP8, SIRT1, and cytochrome enzymes (CYP1A1 & CYP3A4); the majorly regulated pathway was predicted to be 'Pathways in cancer'. This indicates the rationale for sinapic acid to be used in the treatment of breast cancer. However, these are predictions and need to be validated and looked upon in-depth to confirm the exact mechanism of sinapic acid in the treatment of breast cancer; this is future scope as well as a drawback of the current study.", 
    "abstract": "\u03b3-Aminobutyric acid aminotransferase (GABA-AT) is a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzyme that degrades \u03b3-aminobutyric (GABA) in the brain. GABA is an important inhibitory neurotransmitter that plays important neurological roles in the brain. Therefore, GABA-AT is an important drug target that regulates GABA levels. Novel and potent drug development to inhibit GABA-AT is still a very challenging task. In this study, we aimed to devise novel and potent inhibitors against GABA-AT using computer-aided drug design (CADD) tools. Since the crystal structure of human GABA-AT was not yet available, we utilized a homologous structure derived from our previously published paper. To identify highly potent compounds relative to vigabatrin, an FDA-approved drug against human GABA-AT, we developed a pharmacophore analysis protocol for 530,000 Korea Chemical Bank (KCB) compounds and selected the top 50 compounds for further screening. Preliminary biological analysis was carried out for these 50 compounds and 16 compounds were further assessed. Subsequently, molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and binding free energy calculations were carried out. In the results, four predicted compounds, A07, B07, D08, and H08, were found to be highly potent and were further evaluated by a biological activity assay to confirm the results of the GABA-AT activity inhibition assay.", 
    "abstract": "Pentablock terpolymers are potential candidates for the self-assembly of multicompartment nanostructures. In this work, Dissipative Particle Dynamic simulation is employed to investigate how the equilibrium aggregate structures of C", 
    "abstract": "Investigating habitat quality under different climate scenarios holds significant importance for sustainable land resource management and ecological conservation. In this study, considering Nanchang as a case study, a coupled patch-generating land use simulation (PLUS) and system dynamics (SD) model was employed in the simulation and prediction of land usage under shared socioeconomic pathway (SSP) and representative concentration pathway (RCP) scenarios. To assess the habitat quality in Nanchang from 2000 to 2020 and in 2030 under three diverse climate scenarios, we used the Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services and Trade-offs (InVEST) model to analyze spatial and temporal changes. The findings indicate that the regions of forest land, cultivated land, and grassland in Nanchang City will dramatically decrease by 2030, the construction land will rapidly expand, and the fluctuations in the unutilized land and water area will be minimal. Additionally, the habitat quality declined from 2000 to 2020, and its spatial distributions changed. Zones having a high overall habitat quality were distributed in the mountains, hills, and lake areas, whereas those with relatively low quality were found in cultivated and urban areas. Under three climate scenarios, in 2030, the habitat quality index for Nanchang City will show a decreasing trend, mainly owing to areas with an index of 0.3-0.5 transitioning to <0.3. Considering each scenario, the degree of habitat degradation increased in the order SSP585>SSP245>SSP119. The findings of this study will inform high-quality development and biodiversity conservation in Nanchang City.", 
    "abstract": "Novel azobenzene scaffold-joined heterocyclic isoxazole, pyrazole, triazole, and/or triazine moieties have been developed and synthesized utilizing microwave and traditional methods. Our compounds were tested for growth inhibition of A549, MCF-7, HCT-116, and HepG2 tumors by dual targeting the VEGFR-2 and EGFR", 
    "abstract": "The pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the infection of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a significant impact on the economy and public health worldwide. Therapeutic options such as drugs and vaccines for this newly emerged disease are eagerly desired due to the high mortality. Using the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved drugs to treat a new disease or entirely different diseases, in terms of drug repurposing, minimizes the time and cost of drug development compared to the de novo design of a new drug. Drug repurposing also has some other advantages such as reducing safety evaluation to accelerate drug application on time. Carvedilol, a non-selective beta-adrenergic blocker originally designed to treat high blood pressure and manage heart disease, has been shown to impact SARS-CoV-2 infection in clinical observation and basic studies. Here, we applied computer-aided approaches to investigate the possibility of repurposing carvedilol to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection. The molecular mechanisms and potential molecular targets of carvedilol were identified by evaluating the interactions of carvedilol with viral proteins. Additionally, the binding affinities of in vivo metabolites of carvedilol with selected targets were evaluated. The docking scores for carvedilol and its metabolites with RdRp were -\u200910.0\u00a0kcal/mol, -\u20099.8\u00a0kcal/mol (1-hydroxyl carvedilol), -\u20099.7\u00a0kcal/mol (3-hydroxyl carvedilol), -\u20099.8\u00a0kcal/mol (4-hydroxyl carvedilol), -\u20099.7\u00a0kcal/mol (5-hydroxyl carvedilol), -\u200910.0\u00a0kcal/mol (8-hydroxyl carvedilol), and -\u200910.1\u00a0kcal/mol (O-desmethyl carvedilol), respectively. Using the molecular dynamics simulation (100\u00a0ns) method, we further confirmed the stability of formed complexes of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and carvedilol or its metabolites. Finally, the drug-target interaction mechanisms that contribute to the complex were investigated. Overall, this study provides the molecular targets and mechanisms of carvedilol and its metabolites as repurposed drugs to fight against SARS-CoV-2 infection.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to assess the dynamic simulation models provided by Aspen adsorption (ASPAD) and artificial neural network (ANN) in understanding the adsorption behavior of atenolol (ATN) on gasified Glyricidia sepium woodchips activated carbon (GGSWAC) within fixed bed columns for wastewater treatment. The findings demonstrated that increasing the bed height from 1 to 3 cm extended breakthrough and exhaustion times while enhancing adsorption capacity. Conversely, higher initial ATN concentrations resulted in shorter breakthrough and exhaustion times but increased adsorption capacity. Elevated influent flow rates reduced breakthrough and exhaustion times while maintaining constant adsorption capacity. The ASPAD software demonstrated competence in accurately modeling the crucial exhaustion points. However, there is room for enhancement in forecasting breakthrough times, as it exhibited deviations ranging from 6.52 to 239.53% when compared to the actual experimental data. ANN models in both MATLAB and Python demonstrated precise predictive abilities, with the Python model (R", 
    "abstract": "Inter-regional trade of agricultural products based on the flow of agricultural virtual resources is of great importance for sustainable agricultural development. We focused on grain crops (rice, wheat and maize) in the North China Plain (NCP), and used the Penman-Monteith equation to simulate crop water requirements. We further analyzed the flow of virtual land and virtual water associated with the grain trade using an environmentally expanded multi-regional input-output model. The coupling coordination of land, water, and food was evaluated to assess the rationality of regional agricultural production resource allocation. Between 2007 and 2017, agricultural virtual land and virtual water embodied in the grain trade between the NCP and other areas increased by 48.10\u00a0% and 34.41\u00a0%, respectively, indicating that the NCP is gradually consolidating its position as the main production area and distribution center of crops in China. Agricultural virtual resources in the NCP were mainly transported to the southeast coastal region, with an overall trend of resource movement from north to south. The total supply of agricultural land and water resources markedly increased in the NCP, whereas the transfer of virtual resources across regions showed a decreasing trend. Because of the irrational structure of crop cultivation and unevenness of regional resource allocation, the coupling coordination of the water-land-food nexus in the NCP is much lower than the national average. This study provides important information on the trade flows and coupling relationships of virtual water and land resources of three major food crops, which will help to alleviate resource pressure in agricultural production and promote sustainable agricultural development in the NCP.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with the deposition of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) fibrillary aggregates. Disaggregation of A\u03b2 fibrils is considered as one of the promising AD treatments. Recent experimental studies showed that anthocyanidins, one type of flavonoids abundant in fruits/vegetables, can disaggregate A\u03b2 fibrillary aggregates. However, their relative disruptive capacities and underlying mechanisms are largely unknown. Herein, we investigated the detailed interactions between five most common anthocyanidins (cyanidin, aurantinidin, peonidin, delphinidin, and pelargonidin) and A\u03b2 protofibril (an intermediate of A\u03b2 fibrillization) by performing microsecond molecular dynamic simulations. We found that all five anthocyanidins can destroy F4-L34-V36 hydrophobic core and K28-A42 salt bridge, leading to A\u03b2 protofibril destabilization. Aurantinidin exhibits the strongest damage to A\u03b2 protofibril (with the most severe disruption on K28-A42 salt bridges), followed by cyanidin (with the most destructive effect on F4-L34-V36 core). Detailed analyses reveal that the protofibril-destruction capacities of anthocyanidins are subtly modulated by the interplay of anthocyanidin-protofibril hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic, aromatic stacking interactions, which are dictated by the number or location of hydroxyl/methyl groups of anthocyanidins. These findings provide important mechanistic insights into A\u03b2 protofibril disaggregation by anthocyanidins, and suggest that aurantinidin/cyanidin may serve as promising starting-points for the development of new drug candidates against AD.", 
    "abstract": "The aurora kinase is a key enzyme that is implicated in tumor growth. Research revealed that small molecules that target aurora kinase have beneficial effects as anticancer agents. In the present study, in order to identify potential antibreast cancer agents with aurora kinase inhibitory activity, we employed QSARINS software to perform the quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR). The statistical values resulted from the study include ", 
    "abstract": "Tyrosinase is a key enzyme in melanogenesis and its inhibitors have become increasingly because of their potential activity as hypopigmenting agents which have less side effects. Nipa palm vinegar is an aqueous product that is normally used as a food supplement. The aim of this study was to study the determination of antioxidant activity and tyrosinase inhibitory activities of aqueous extract of original nipa palm vinegar (AE O-NPV), nipa palm vinegar powder (NPV-P) and aqueous extract of nipa palm vinegar powder (AE NPV-P) were examined. Nipa palm vinegars were evaluated the phenolic and flavonoid content, and the active compounds which were submitted to molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation, chemoinformatics, rule of five, skin absorption and toxicity. The highest phenolic and flavonoid contents in the AE O-NPV were 2.36 \u00b1\u00a00.23 mg gallic acid equivalents/g extract and 5.11 \u00b1\u00a00.59 mg quercetin equivalents/g, and the highest ABTS radical cation scavenging activity was also found. The AE O-NPV, NPV-P and AE NPV-P showed anti-mushroom tyrosinase activity. The HPLC analysis showed that there were vanillic acid and three flavonoids (catechin, rutin and quercetin). The molecular docking study revealed that the binding of the vanillic acid and three flavonoids occurred in the active site residues (histidine and other amino acids). Moreover, the number of hydrogen bond acceptors/donors, solubility, polar surface area and bioavailability score of the vanillic acid and three flavonoids were acceptable compared to Lipinski's Rule of Five. The molecular dynamic simulation showed that vanillic acid interacts with HIS284 through ", 
    "abstract": "Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is ubiquitously hyper-activated in numerous cancers, rendering it an appealing target for therapeutic intervention.\nIn this study, using structure-based virtual screening complemented by molecular dynamics simulations, we identified ten potential STAT3 inhibitors. The simulations pinpointed compounds 8, 9, and 10 as forming distinct hydrogen bonds with the SH2 domain of STAT3. \nCollectively, our findings position compound 4 as a promising lead candidate warranting further exploration in the development of anti-gastric cancer therapeutics.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), negatively affect the economic and psychological system. For AD, there is still a lack of disease-altering treatments and promising cures due to its complex pathophysiology. In this study, we computationally screened the natural database of fungal metabolites against three known therapeutic target proteins of AD. Initially, a pharmacophore-based, drug-likeness category was employed for screening, and it filtered the 14 (", 
    "abstract": "Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) technology has been widely used in medicine to simulate and analyse urine flow characteristics in urology. In previous studies, researchers have modelled the analysis with a simple circular urethra, ignoring the effect of the patient's true urethral morphology on the urinary flow rate. Moreover, the studies tended to be steady-state simulations rather than dynamic simulations. Therefore, this study is established a relatively realistic model of the posterior urethra based on MRI data combined with the urodynamic data of patients and analysed the urodynamic characteristics of the posterior urethra model after benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) surgery using a CFD dynamic simulation.\nBased on clinical MRI data, a three-dimensional real urethral model was established for two patients with BPH after surgery. The boundary conditions were set according to the patients' real urodynamic data, and a Reynolds averaged Navier\u2012Stokes model was used for transient simulations. The dynamic simulation depicted the entire urination process, and the urine flow characteristics were studied under real urethral morphology after surgery.\n1. By comparing the three-dimensional trajectory of urine and the vortex identification cloud map based on the Q criterion, we intuitively observed the distribution of the vortex in the model, and a 'gourd-shaped' urethra was more likely to generate a vortex than a 'funnel-shaped' urethra. 2. After surgery for BPH, the changes in the posterior urethral pressure were mainly concentrated in the urethral membrane, and the velocity increased while the pressure decreased. The curve of the posterior urethral pressure changes during urination was simulated and calculated. The posterior urethral pressure gradients of the two patients were 6.6\u00a0cmH\nThe complete urinary discharge process can be dynamically simulated using CFD techniques. By comparing the simulation results, the posterior urethral morphology can have an important impact on the urinary flow characteristics. Determining the location of vortex generation can lay a foundation for personalized surgical plans for patients in the future. Furthermore, numerical simulations can provide a new method for the study of non-invasive posterior urethral pressure gradients.", 
    "abstract": "Studying interactions between drugs and cell membranes is of great interest to designing novel drugs, optimizing drug delivery, and discerning drug mechanism action. In this study, we investigated the physical properties of the bilayer membrane model of POPC upon interaction with ibuprofen (IBU) using molecular dynamics simulations. The area per lipid (APL) was calculated to describe the effect of ibuprofen on the packing properties of the lipid bilayer. The APL was 0.58\u2009nm\nIbuprofen changes the physical properties of the membrane.Ibuprofen decreases the packing and intermolecular interaction at the hydrocarbon chain of lipids.Ibuprofen increases the permeability of water and hydrogen peroxide as reactive oxygen species (ROS).Results may shed light on the local cytotoxic side effects of ibuprofen.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we conducted molecular dynamic simulations to investigate the thermal expansion behavior of Janus MoSSe nanotubes. We focused on understanding how the intrinsic strain in these nanotubes affects their thermal expansion coefficient (TEC). Interestingly, we found that Janus MoSSe nanotubes with sulfur (S) on the outer surface (MoSeS) exhibit a different intrinsic strain compared to those with selenium (Se) on the outer surface (MoSSe). In light of this observation, we explored the influence of this intrinsic strain on the TEC of the nanotubes. Our results revealed distinct trends for the TEC along the radial direction (TEC-", 
    "abstract": "[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1002/elsc.202100083.].", 
    "abstract": "The bone morphology of the greater tuberosity and lateral acromion plays a central role in subacromial impingement syndrome. The critical shoulder angle (CSA) and greater tuberosity angle (GTA) are two-dimensional measurement parameters that have been validated to evaluate it radiologically. These markers are, however, static and don't consider the dynamic effect of glenohumeral motion.\nThis study aimed to better understand the biomechanics in subacromial impingement with a dynamic simulation based on a validated 3D biomechanical model coupling joint kinematics and 3D reconstructed computed tomography.\nSixty-one patients were included in this study: a case group of 44 patients with degenerative rotator cuff tears involving only the supraspinatus, and a control group of 17 without a rotator cuff tear. Patients with previous surgeries, traumatic cuff tears, and cuff tear arthropathy were excluded. CSA, GTA, and impingement-free range of motion (IF-ROM) of the glenohumeral joint in scaption were calculated. Correlation tests were used to determine the relationship between ROM and CSA, GTA, and combined CSA and GTA values.\nCSA and GTA were significantly higher in the rotator cuff tear group (p\u2009=\u20090.001 and <\u20090.001), while IF-ROM was significantly higher in the control group (p\u2009=\u20090.001). There was no overall correlation between CSA and GTA (R\u2009=\u20090.02, p\u2009=\u20090.8). Individual correlation between both angles with IF-ROM was negatively weak for CSA (R = -0.4, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and negatively moderate for GTA and IF-ROM (R = -0.5, p\u2009<\u20090.001). However, combining both angles resulted in a negatively high correlation with IF-ROM (R = -0.7, p\u2009<\u20090.001).\nSubacromial space narrowing during scaption is highly correlated to the cumulative values of GTA and CSA. These findings suggest that the combined bony morphology of the lateral acromion and greater tuberosity plays an important role in subacromial impingement.\nIII.", 
    "abstract": "Mitogen-activated protein kinase 7 (MAPK7) is a serine/threonine protein kinase that belongs to the MAPK family and plays a vital role in various cellular processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, gene transcription, apoptosis, metabolism, and cell survival. The elevated expression of MAPK7 has been associated with the onset and progression of multiple aggressive tumors in humans, underscoring the potential of targeting MAPK7 pathways in therapeutic research. This pursuit holds promise for the advancement of anticancer drug development by developing potential MAPK7 inhibitors. To look for potential MAPK7 inhibitors, we exploited structure-based virtual screening of natural products from the ZINC database. First, the Lipinski rule of five criteria was used to filter a large library of ~90,000 natural compounds, followed by ADMET and pan-assay interference compounds (PAINS) filters. Then, top hits were chosen based on their strong binding affinity as determined by molecular docking. Further, interaction analysis was performed to find effective and specific compounds that can precisely bind to the binding pocket of MAPK7. Consequently, two compounds, ZINC12296700 and ZINC02123081, exhibited significant binding affinity and demonstrated excellent drug-like properties. All-atom molecular dynamics simulations for 200\u2009ns confirmed the stability of MAPK7-ZINC12296700 and MAPK7-ZINC02123081 docked complexes. According to the molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area investigation, the binding affinities of both complexes were considerable. Overall, the result suggests that ZINC12296700 and ZINC02123081 might be used as promising leads to develop novel MAPK7 inhibitors. Since these compounds would interfere with the kinase activity of MAPK7, therefore, may be implemented to control cell growth and proliferation in cancer after required validations.", 
    "abstract": "To restore the integrity of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the wound healing process involves a complex series of well-orchestrated biochemical and cellular events. Due to the existence of various active components, accessibility and few side effects, some plant extracts and their phytoconstituents are recognised as viable options for wound healing agents. To find possible inhibitors of diabetic wound healing, four main constituents of aloe vera were identified from the literature. TGF-\u03b21 and the compounds were studied using molecular docking to see how they interacted with the active site of target protein (PDB ID: 6B8Y). The pharmacokinetics investigation of the aloe emodin with the highest dock score complied with all the Lipinski's rule of five and pharmacokinetics criteria. Conformational change in the docked complex of Aloe emodin was investigated with the Amber simulation software, ", 
    "abstract": "COVID-19 has rapidly proliferated around 180 countries, and new cases are reported frequently. No peptide medication has been developed that can reliably block SARS-CoV-2 infection. The investigation focuses on the crucial host receptors angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) , which can bind receptor-binding domain (RBD) on the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (S). To investigate the inhibitory effects of human Eosinophil Cationic Protein (hECP) and Latarcin-1 (L1)on SARS-CoV-2 infection, we have selected them as research subjects. Further, we ran extensive molecular dynamics simulations to bring the docked peptide-ACE2 complex into its equilibrium state. The outcomes were then evaluated with g_MMPBSA and interaction analysis. We have also considered the Delta and Omicron variants to examine these peptides' inhibitory effects. The experimental findings revealed an enhanced capability of L1 and hECP as SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors, occupying hot spots and numerous key residues in ACE2. These include ASP30, ASP38, GLU35 and GLU75, which significantly inhibit the binding of RBD and ACE2 and are effective against two common variants in a similar manner. In addition, this study can serve as a springboard for future research on SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Tanshinone IIA is a lipophilic organic compound from the root of Danshen (Salvia miltiorrhiza) and is one of the most well-known Tanshinone molecules by pharmacologists. In recent years, in addition to effects of anti-cardiovascular and neurological diseases, Tanshinone IIA has also shown some degrees of anti-prostate cancer potential. Although they do have some studies focusing on the molecular mechanism of Tanshinone IIA's anti-prostate cancer effects, a further understanding on the transcriptomic and structural level is still lacking. In this study, transcriptomic sequencing technology and computer technology were employed to illustrate the effects of Tanshinone IIA on prostate cancer through bioinformatic analysis and molecular dynamics simulation, and PPARG was considered to be one of the targets for Tanshinone IIA according to docking scoring and dynamic calculation. Our study provides a novel direction to further understand the mechanism of the effects of Tanshinone IIA on prostate cancer, and further molecular biological studies need to be carried on to further investigate the molecular mechanism of Tanshinone IIA's anti-prostate cancer effect through PPARG.", 
    "abstract": "A comprehensive study has been carried out by utilizing the molecular dynamics technique in order to investigate the behavior of the N-(1-hexylheptyl)-N'-(2-phenylpropanoicacid)-perylene-3,4,9,10-tetracarboxylicbisimide (PAP) molecules in the n-heptane/toluene solution as well as the role of the bare and functionalized single-wall carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) with the carboxyl groups (-COOH) on the aggregation of PAP molecules. It was found that the CNTs benefit two mechanism of steric hindrance and adsorbing the PAP molecules to suppress the affinity of PAP molecules to association. The results ascertain that the constant amount of the carboxyl groups acts more efficiently in restricting the growth of aggregate size if they are distributed on the surface of a larger CNT. Both of the increased nonbonding interactions between the functionalized CNTs and the PAP molecules, and the number of formed hydrogen bonds between them clearly proved the efficiency of the -COOH groups in improving the stability of PAP molecules. The strength of the adsorption free energies revealed that the PAP molecule shows more tendency to be adsorbed on the surface of CNT modified with carboxyl groups. Increasing the dosage of the -COOH groups on the surface of the CNTs with constant dimension causes an increment in the PAP molecules' solvent accessible surface area (SASA) value, indicating enhanced stability of the PAP molecules. Finally, the results would facilitate future studies on manipulating the asphaltene precipitation in the oil industry.", 
    "abstract": "Non-small cell lung cancer, head and neck cancer, glioblastoma, and various other cancer types often demonstrate persistent elevation in EGFR tyrosine kinase activity due to acquired mutations in its kinase domain. Any alteration in the EGFR is responsible for triggering the upregulation of tumor angiogenic pathways, such as the PI3k-AKT-mTOR pathway, MAPK-ERK pathway and PLC-\u01b3 pathway, which are critically involved in promoting tumor angiogenesis in cancer cells. The emergence of frequently occurring EGFR kinase domain mutations (L858R/T790M/C797S) that confer resistance to approved therapeutic agents has presented a significant challenge for researchers aiming to develop effective and well-tolerated treatments against tumor angiogenesis. In this study, we directed our efforts towards the rational design and development of novel quinazoline derivatives with the potential to act as antagonists against both wild-type and mutant EGFR. Our approach encompasing the application of advanced drug design strategies, including structure-based virtual screening, molecular docking, molecular dynamics, metabolic reactivity and cardiotoxicity prediction studies led to the identification of two prominent lead compounds: QU648, for EGFR", 
    "abstract": "Acidic partial nitritation (PN) is a promising technology to achieve low-cost and energy-efficient shortcut nitrogen removal from wastewater. However, a comprehensive understanding of the acidic PN under dynamic changes of pH in a sequencing batch reactor (SBR) is still lacking. In this study, we successfully established acidic PN (NO", 
    "abstract": "Machine learning algorithms have been increasingly applied in drug development due to their efficiency and effectiveness. Machine learning-based drug repurposing can contribute to the identification of novel therapeutic applications for drugs with other indications. The current study used a trained machine learning model to screen a vast chemical library for new JAK2 inhibitors, the biological activities of which were reported. Reference JAK2 inhibitors, comprising 1911 compounds, have experimentally determined IC", 
    "abstract": "Low-lipoxygenase soybean cultivars are highly desirable because lower lipoxygenase content in soybean seeds leads to better quality soybean-based products and oils that are free from off-flavor or beany flavor. The expression of the Lox-2 gene is mainly responsible for this flavor. Over the years, natural antioxidants have been tested biochemically to inhibit Lox-2 activity, but ", 
    "abstract": "Microbial resistance to drugs currently traded in the market is a serious problem in modern medicine. In this field of research, we synthesized a novel ", 
    "abstract": "The binding of pseudallecin A (PA), a potential antibiotic with strong inhibitory activities against Gram-positive Escherichia coli and Gram-negative Staphylococcus aureus, to human serum albumin (HSA) was explored. The interaction between them was assessed by multi-spectroscopic analysis, binding site competitive analysis, molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation, showing the results as follows: PA effectively quenched the innate fluorescence of HSA by a static quenching process, formed a complex at a molar ratio of approximately 1\u2009:\u20091 and performed an effective non-radiative energy transfer; the binding of PA to HSA was a spontaneous exothermic reaction driven by enthalpy with strong affinity and had a slight effect on the conformation of HSA; PA bound at site\u2005III of HSA and hydrogen bonds were the major binding forces to maintain the stability of the PA-HSA complex. Molecular dynamic simulation was performed to calculate the root mean square deviation (RMSD), root mean square fluctuation (RMSF) and radius of gyration (Rg) for this complex and effectively supported the spectroscopic outcome. These results meant that the delivery and distribution of PA as a water-insoluble molecule can be efficiently accomplished via HSA in human blood and, it has a good potential for future drug application and pharmacological development.", 
    "abstract": "Intrinsic flexibility and structural modularity are two common features of RNA molecules. Although functionally crucial, RNA plasticity often represents a major complication in high-resolution structural studies. To overcome this problem, RNAs may be rigidified through the complexation with high-affinity partners such as Fab molecules. This approach has been previously used to characterize the DIR2-aptamer. However, possible perturbations induced by the insertion of the Fab binding site on the DIR2-aptamer conformational properties were not investigated. Here, using enhanced molecular dynamics simulations, we compared the dynamics of the DIR2 aptamer holding the Fab binding site with that of the parental sequence. Our results suggest that the L2-loop modification for the Fab recognition leads to a significant increase in local flexibility that also affects the mobility of distant regions. The trajectories provide clear indications of the groups and the interactions mediating the dynamics transfer in DIR2. The effectiveness of our approach in addressing RNA flexibility was further corroborated by showing its ability to reproduce the most important events affecting the NF-\u03baB RNA aptamer upon dissociation from the partner. Therefore, REMD analyses, a rarely adopted technique to unravel the structural/dynamical properties of aptamers, could efficiently complement experimental data guiding the rational design of nucleic acid therapeutics.", 
    "abstract": "The construction sector plays an important role in environmental sustainable development and the green economy. Green technology innovation in the construction sector can improve the energy, cost, and environmental performance of the industry. The lagging effects of influential factors for green technology innovation have yet to be fully understood. This study aims to explore the process of green technology innovation in large construction companies based on the innovation value chain theory and through a system dynamics (SD) approach. The results revealed the dynamic interaction between various influencing factors of green technology innovation in the construction industry. The effects of different knowledge bases and market shares show heterogeneity when the influencing factors are considered as an integrated system. The study helps researchers and practitioners gain a better understanding of the nature of green technology innovation from a systematic view. Suggestions are provided for decision-makers and practitioners to better manage green technology innovation.", 
    "abstract": "The anti-apoptotic protein B-Cell Lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) is a key target for the development of anti-cancer agents, as its overexpression can render cancer cells resistant to chemotherapeutic treatments.\nThe current study has systematically evaluated a library of FDA-approved drugs for Bcl-2 inhibition using a drug repurposing strategy via in vitro, biophysical, and in-silico techniques.\nIn vitro anticancer activity was performed, followed by apoptosis assay. The selected compounds were subjected to Saturation Transfer Difference Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (STD-NMR) spectroscopy, molecular docking, and molecular dynamic simulation for ligand-protein interactions.\nIn the initial screening, seventy-five (75) drugs were evaluated against the HL-60 (human blood promyelocytic leukemia) cancer cell line. Among them, paroxetine HCl, carvedilol, clomipramine HCl, and clomifene citrate showed significant anti-proliferative activity (IC\nThis study, identifies paroxetine HCl, carvedilol, clomipramine HCl, and clomifene citrate as significant Bcl-2 inhibitors and needs further pre-clinical and clinical studies for potential anti-cancer agents' evaluation.", 
    "abstract": "As a subclass of the biopharmaceutical classification system (BCS) class II, basic drugs (BCS IIB) exhibit pH-dependent solubility and tend to generate supersaturation in the gastrointestinal tract, leading to less qualified in vitro-in vivo correlation (IVIVC). This study aims to develop a physiologically based multi-cup dissolution approach to improve the evaluation of the supersaturation for a higher quality of IVIVC and preliminarily explores the molecular mechanism of supersaturation and precipitation of ketoconazole affected by Polyvinylpyrrolidone-vinyl acetate copolymer (PVPVA) and hydroxypropyl methyl-cellulose (HPMC). The concentration of ketoconazole in each cup of the dynamic gastrointestinal model (DGIM) was measured using fiber optical probes. Molecular interactions between ketoconazole and PVPVA or HPMC were simulated by Materials Studio. The results demonstrated that PVPVA and HPMC improved and maintained the supersaturation of ketoconazole. PVPVA exhibited superior precipitation inhibitory effect on ketoconazole molecule aggregation due to slightly stronger van der Waals forces as well as unique electrostatic forces, thereby further enhancing in vitro drug absorption, which correlated well with in vivo drug absorption. Compared with a conventional dissolution apparatus paddle method, the DGIM improved the mean prediction error through the IVIVC from 19.30% to 9.96%, reaching the qualification criteria. In conclusion, the physiologically based multi-cup dissolution approach enables improved evaluation of supersaturation in gastrointestinal transportation of BCS IIB drug ketoconazole, enabling screening screen precipitation inhibitors and achieving qualified IVIVC for drug formulation studies.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this work was to evaluate interaction between aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) and structural models of \u03b2-lactoglobulin (\u03b2-LG) at pH 4.0 and 6.5. This information would provide an explanation of the variability in AFM1 during cheese production. Once \u03b2-LG models were optimized using molecular dynamic (MD) simulation, it was found that a region of the Calyx cavity underwent conformational changes, at the E-F loop, from the closed conformation at pH 6.5 to the open at pH 4.0. No differences in Site C conformation were observed at both pH. The binding free energy (", 
    "abstract": "The discovery of imatinib, a specific inhibitor of Abl kinase, revolutionized the therapeutic approach to chronic myeloid leukemia (CML); however, its efficacy can be impeded by the emergence of novel mutations within the kinase domain, particularly Abl", 
    "abstract": "Metformin, which has been shown to be highly effective in treating type 2 diabetes (T2D), is also believed to be valuable for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Computer simulation techniques have emerged as an innovative approach to explore mechanisms.\nTo study the potential mechanism of metformin action in AD and T2D.\nThe chemical structure of metformin was obtained from PubChem. The targets of metformin were obtained from PubChem, Pharm Mapper, Batman, SwissTargetPrediction, DrugBank, and PubMed. The pathogenic genes of AD and T2D were retrieved from the GeneCards, OMIM, TTD, Drugbank, PharmGKB, and DisGeNET. The intersection of metformin with the targets of AD and T2D is represented by a Venn diagram. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) and core targets networks of intersected targets were constructed by Cytoscape 3.7.1. The enrichment information of GO and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Gene and Genomics (KEGG) pathways obtained by the Metascape was made into a bar chart and a bubble diagram. AutoDockTools, Pymol, and Chem3D were used for the molecular docking. Gromacs software was used to perform molecular dynamics (MD) simulation of the best binding target protein.\nA total of 115 key targets of metformin for AD and T2D were obtained. GO analysis showed that biological process mainly involved response to hormones and the regulation of ion transport. Cellular component was enriched in the cell body and axon. Molecular function mainly involved kinase binding and signal receptor regulator activity. The KEGG pathway was mainly enriched in pathways of cancer, neurodegeneration, and endocrine resistance. Core targets mainly included TP53, TNF, VEGFA, HIF1A, IL1B, IGF1, ESR1, SIRT1, CAT, and CXCL8. The molecular docking results showed best binding of metformin to CAT. MD simulation further indicated that the CAT-metformin complex could bind well and converge relatively stable at 30\u2009ns.\nMetformin exerts its effects on regulating oxidative stress, gluconeogenesis and inflammation, which may be the mechanism of action of metformin to improve the common pathological features of T2D and AD.", 
    "abstract": "High blood sugar is a defining feature of chronic disease, diabetes mellitus (DM). There are numerous commercially available medications for the treatment of DM. However, managing the patient's glucose levels remain a challenge because of the gradual reduction in beta-cell function and some side effects from the long-term use of various medications. Previous research has shown that the phenolic compound of henna plant (", 
    "abstract": "In this study, a series of thiazolidine-2,4-dione derivatives ", 
    "abstract": "Constructed wetland (CW) is an important method of ecological water treatment, and CW has obvious advantage in treating low-pollution water. In order to improve the treatment efficiency of CW, the first-order and second-order kinetics simulations of pollutant removal in CW were carried out to optimize operating conditions. The experimental study of city tail water treatment under unmodified biochar (different additions) or different modified biochar conditions showed that the first-order kinetic equation relatively accurately reflect the removal of pollutants by substrate. The relatively optimal range of biochar addition (2.21-3.79%) in the first-order kinetic analysis covered the relatively optimal mass ratio (2.95%). The first-order kinetic equation fitting showed that the half-life of ammonia nitrogen removal by NaOH (0.1 mol\u00b7L", 
    "abstract": "The current study aimed to design novel curcumin analogue inhibitors with antiproliferative and antitumor activity towards BRCA1 and TP53 tumor proteins and to study their therapeutic potential by computer-aided molecular designing and experimental investigations. Four curcumin analogues were computationally designed and their drug-likeness and pharmacokinetic properties were predicted. The binding of these analogues against six protein targets belonging to BRCA1 and TP53 tumor proteins were modelled by molecular docking and their binding energies were compared with that of curcumin and the standard drug cyclophosphamide and its validated target. The stabilities of selected docked complexes were confirmed by molecular dynamic simulation (MDS) and MMGBSA calculations. The best-docked analogue was chemically synthesized, characterized, and used for in vitro cytotoxic screening using DLA, EAC, and C127I cell lines. In vivo antitumor studies were carried out in Swiss Albino Mice. The study revealed that the designed analogues satisfied drug-likeness and pharmacokinetic properties and demonstrated better binding affinity to the selected targets than curcumin. Among the analogues, NLH demonstrated significant interaction with the BRCA1-BRCT-c domain (TG3; binding energy -8.3\u00a0kcal/mol) when compared to the interaction of curcumin (binding energy -6.19\u00a0kcal) and cyclophosphamide (binding energy -3.8\u00a0kcal/mol) and its usual substrate (TG7). The MDS and MM/GBSA studies revealed that the binding free energy of the NLH-TG3 complex (-61.24\u00a0kcal/mol) was better when compared to that of the cyclophosphamide-TG7 complex (-21.67\u00a0kcal/mol). In vitro, cytotoxic studies showed that NLH demonstrated significant antiproliferative activities against tumor cell lines. The in vivo study depicted NLH possesses the potential for tumor inhibition. Thus, the newly synthesized curcumin analogue is probably used to develop novel therapeutic agents against breast cancer.", 
    "abstract": "Under the context of territorial spatial planning in the new era, it is of great significance to analyze the future land use competition pattern to construct a sustainable and adaptive management strategy for territorial spatial development and utilization protection. Taking Shenyang, a megacity in Northeast China, as the case study area, and the geographic information system technologies and the patch-generation land use simulation (PLUS) model was used to simulate the land use competition pattern in 2030 under four scenarios. Meanwhile, the dynamic evolution of territorial spatial structure competition was monitored based on the perspective of agricultural, ecological, and construction land space. The results show that land use competition was driven by food security, economic growth, and ecological protection. The results showed that (1) the most frequent changes in cultivated land and construction land were found in 1980, 1990, 2000, 2010, and 2020, and their competitive advantage among land use types was obvious. As for the driving mechanism, the influencing effect of socioeconomic factors on land use type competition was more significant than that of natural factors. (2) The competitive dominance scenario of cultivated land protection and the synergistic dominance scenario of cultivated land, ecological, and construction could help optimize and control the land use competition pattern. (3) The information entropy and equilibrium index of the territorial spatial structure increase in both scenarios; the dominance index decreases, and the proportion of agricultural, ecological, and construction space is more coordinated. The results may assist a holistic understanding of land use change to coordinate the competition among agricultural, ecological, and construction space and facilitate the realization of high-quality territorial spatial development goals.", 
    "abstract": "The dynamic characteristics of electric drive systems are crucial in electric vehicles. Based on the dynamic finite element method and previous studies, this study proposes and analyzes a new mathematical model for a motor longitudinally mounted on a centralized electric drive system of a pure electric vehicle. First, we analyze the largest torque ripple of a fractional slot concentrated winding inner-mounted permanent magnet synchronous motor designed for commercial electric vehicles. This torque ripple is identified as one of the excitations influencing the dynamic performance of the electric drive system. Second, a new dynamic mathematical model for the electric drive system is established. Third, we investigate the linear vibration responses of the system subject to torque ripple and transmission error. Finally, the relationships between critical motor parameters and dynamic mesh force are revealed. The results demonstrate that the proposed theoretical method can effectively determine the dynamic characteristics of the electric drive system, thereby providing valuable theoretical guidance for the design and optimization of the motor and electric drive system.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Global burden of breast cancer is expected to cross 26 million new cases by 2030. The term 'triple negative breast cancer' (TNBC) refers to lack of expression of hormone receptors (ER, PR and HER2). 5-Lipoxygenase (5-LOX) inhibition promotes breast cancer apoptosis, ferroptosis and inhibits metastases. Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\u03baB) activation induces cell survival in breast cancer through stimulation of angiogenesis. Therefore, inhibiting NF-B signalling can stop the growth of tumours. In light of these facts, an attempt is made to investigate binding characteristics of LOX inhibitors against 5-LOX (PDB-IDs 3V99 and 6N2W) and NF-\u03baB (PDB-IDs 4KIK and 3DO7) through molecular docking, MM-GBSA calculation, molecular dynamic simulations (MDSs) and drug-likeness analysis. The eight lead molecules A169, A156, A162, A154, A102, A240, A86 and A58 were identified. The higher NF-B inhibiting potential of A169 was discovered through the sequential HTVS, SP docking and XP docking study. The hydrophobic interaction of Leu607, Phe610, Gln557 and Asn554 with 3V99 and Cys99, Glu97 and Arg20 of 4KIK is crucial for the inhibition. The LE, LLE and FQ values of A169 suggest their optimal binding with the target. This study strongly suggests the LOX and NF-\u03baB inhibitory potential of A169, further lead optimisation and biological validation requires for the confirmations.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Research proved that coenzyme Q10-loaded NLC effectively removes skin wrinkles, therefore, such a formulation with good characteristics is still the research goal.\nThis study investigated the effect of solid lipids and surfactant type on the physical characteristics of Q10-NLC. We aimed to achieve the optimum formulation for producing NLC with long-term stability and high Entrapment efficiency (E.E.) %. We compared the experimental results with the output of the Molecular dynamic (M.D.) simulations.\nTo develop Q10-NLC, various solid lipids, MCT oil, and surfactants were employed. The formulations were prepared by high-shear homogenization and ultrasound methods. Stability studies were carried out 1,3, and 6 months at 4, 25, and 40\u00b0C. The optimized NLC formulations were characterized by photon correlation spectroscopy (PCS), Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR). E.E. % was determined by HPLC analysis. Atomistic M.D. simulations of two model systems were performed to gain insights into the self-assembled process of co-Q10 with other formulation components.\nStatistical analysis (Two-way ANOVA) revealed that solid lipid and surfactant factors had a significant influence on particle size, PDI, and zeta potential (***\nThe solid lipids: tripalmitin and compritol, stabilized with 4% tween 80 and 1% span 80, have produced stable NLC with the best surface characteristics that could be a promising formulation for the delivery of Q10. Atomistic M.D. simulation has confirmed the stability of F1 in comparison to F31.", 
    "abstract": "Some novel inhibitors based on the (benzo[d]thiazol-2-yl)-1-phenylmethanimine derivatives were designed to reduce the aggregation process in Alzheimer's disease. These structures seem to mimic stilbene-like scaffold, while the benzothiazole moiety \"locks\" the thioflavin T binding site. Other inhibitors were designed based on 2-((benzo[d]thiazol-2-ylimino)methyl)-5-(benzyloxy)-1-methylpyridin-4(H)-one derivatives. Benzo[d]thiazol-2-amine derivatives were prepared by the reaction of aniline derivatives with ammonium thiocyanate in the presence of bromine/acetic acid. Then, the reaction of amines with benzaldehyde derivatives and 5-(benzyloxy)-1-methyl-4-oxo-1,4-dihydropyridine-2-carbaldehyde gave the desired compounds. The plate reader-based fibrillation assay was done to evaluate the inhibition of A\u03b2 aggregation. Also, molecular dynamic simulation was carried out to clarify the interaction manner of the designed compounds with A\u03b2 formation. The biological evaluation proved 5a and 7e as the best inhibitor of the A\u03b2 aggregation. compound 5a in the concentration of 50\u2005\u03bcM inhibited A\u03b2 fibril formation better than 7e. MD simulation elucidated that the A\u03b2 aggregation inhibitors in different concentrations represented different binding conformations throughout the entire or in one area of A\u03b2. MD showed the ligands in lower concentrations accumulate in an area of A\u03b2 aggregations and separate one fibril from the aggregated A\u03b2. On the contrary, in higher concentrations, the ligands tend to be located through the entire A\u03b2.", 
    "abstract": "Dengue fever is now one of the major global health concerns particularly for tropical and sub-tropical countries. However, there has been no FDA approved medication to treat dengue fever. Researchers are looking into DENV NS5 RdRp protease as a potential therapeutic target for discovering effective anti-dengue agents. The aim of this study to discover dengue virus inhibitor from a set of five compounds from ", 
    "abstract": "Numerous malignancies, including breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and chronic myeloid leukemia, are brought on by aberrant tyrosine kinase signaling. Since the current chemotherapeutic medicines are toxic, there is a great need and demand from cancer patients to find novel chemicals that are toxic-free or have low toxicity and that can kill tumor cells and stop their growth. This work describes the in-silico examination of substances from the drug bank as EGFR inhibitors. Firstly, drug-bank was screened using the pharmacophore technique to select the ligands and Erlotinib (DB00530) was used as matrix compound. The selected ligands were screened using ADMET and the hit compounds were subjected to docking. The lead compound from the docking was subjected to DFT and MD simulation study. Using the pharmacophore technique, 23 compounds were found through virtual drug bank screening. One hit molecule from the ADMET prediction was the subject of docking study. According to the findings, DB03365 molecule fits to the EGFR active site by several hydrogen bonding interactions with amino acids. Furthermore, DFT analysis revealed high reactivity for DB03365 compound in the binding pocket of the target protein, based on E", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Global climate continues to warm; by reducing carbon emission (CE) to cope with climate warming has become a global consensus. The influencing factors of CE exhibit diversification and spatial characteristics, and the complexity of the CE system poses challenges to green and low-carbon development and the realization of China's dual-carbon goals. Taking the Pearl River Delta urban agglomeration as an example, this study explored the influencing factors of CE and designed emission reduction schemes with the help of multi-scale geographically weighted regression (MGWR). Based on this, the system dynamics model was used to construct a CE system framework considering multi-dimensional driving factors, so as to combine the complex CE system with the emission reduction countermeasures considering spatial heterogeneity, and realize the dynamic simulation of CE reduction policies. The results showed that the urban agglomeration as a whole will reach carbon peak by 2025. Shenzhen, Zhuhai, and Dongguan have achieved carbon peak before 2020, while other cities will reach carbon peak by 2025-2030. The government policy constraints can effectively curb CE, but if government constraints were relaxed, CE will rise and individual cities will not reach carbon peak. Comprehensive CE reduction policies are better than a single CE reduction policy. The study found that this model framework provides a systematic analysis of carbon reduction strategies for urban agglomerations, offering decision-makers various combinations of economic development and green low-carbon objectives. This will further contribute to a multi-faceted mitigation of high emission in urban agglomeration and promote regional sustainable development.", 
    "abstract": "Microbiological DNA gyrase is recognized as an exceptional microbial target for the innovative development of low-resistant and more effective antimicrobial drugs. Hence, we introduced a one-pot facile synthesis of a novel pyranopyrazole scaffold bearing different functionalities; substituted aryl ring, nitrile, and hydroxyl groups. All new analogs were characterized with full spectroscopic data. The antimicrobial screening for all analogs was assessed against standard strains of Gm\u2009+\u2009ve and Gm-ve through ", 
    "abstract": "Methicillin-resistant ", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "In recent years, eucommia ulmoides gum (EUG), also known as gutta-percha, has been extensively researched. Molecular dynamic simulations and experiments were used together to look at how well gutta-percha and asphalt work together and how gutta-percha-modified asphalt works. To investigate the gutta-percha and asphalt blending systems, the molecular models of asphalt and various dosages of gutta-percha-modified asphalt were set up using Materials Studio (MS), and the solubility parameters, intermolecular interaction energy, diffusion coefficient, and mechanical properties (including elastic modulus, bulk modulus, and shear modulus) of each system were calculated using molecular dynamic simulations at various temperatures. The findings indicate that EUG and asphalt are compatible, and sulfurized eucommia ulmoides gum (SEUG) and asphalt are more compatible than EUG. However, SEUG-modified asphalt has better mechanical properties than EUG, and the best preparation conditions are 10 wt% doping and 1 h of 180 \u00b0C shearing. Primarily, physical modifications are required for gutta-percha-modified asphalt.", 
    "abstract": "A reliable bonding interface between steel and Ti alloy is required for producing a steel/Ti bimetal composite. In this study, molecular dynamic simulations and diffusion welding experiments using the hot isostatic pressing process were conducted to study the atomic diffusion at the Fe-Ti interface. The simulation results indicate that the diffusion layer thickness is thinner in single crystals compared to polycrystals at the same temperature. This difference may be explained by polycrystals having grain boundaries, which increase atomic disorder and facilitate diffusion. The radial distribution function (RDF) curves for Fe-Fe and Ti-Ti exhibit a similar pattern over time, with a main peak indicating the highest atom density within a specific radius range and relatively strong binding between the central atoms and their nearest neighbors. The observed changes in the diffusion coefficient with temperature in the simulations align well with the experimental results. This study enhances the understanding of Fe-Ti interface diffusion mechanism and provides valuable insights for broader applications of steel/Ti bimetal composites.", 
    "abstract": "Globally, breast cancer (BC), the second-biggest cause of cancer death, occurs due to unregulated cell proliferation leading to metastasis to other parts of the human organ. Recently, the exploration of naturally derived anticancer agents has become popular due to their fewer adverse effects. Among the natural products, soybean is a very well-known legume that contains important bioactive compounds such as diadazine, glycetin, genistein, and genistin. Therefore, keeping its therapeutic potential in mind, multi-targeted molecular docking and simulation studies were conducted to explore the potential role of soybean-derived isoflavone genistin against several breast cancer-signaling proteins (ER-alpha, ER-Beta, collapsin response mediator protein 2, CA 15-3, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2). A comparative study of the genistin-protein docked complex was explored to investigate its potential role in BC. The molecular binding energy (\u2206G) of the docked complex was calculated along with ADMET properties. The molecular docking score of genistin with ubiquitin-like protein activation complex-a type of Cancer Antigen (CA) 15.3 (PDB ID-2NVU, 5T6P, and 1YX8) showed the highest binding energy, ranging from -9.5 to -7.0 Kcal/mol, respectively. Furthermore, the highest docking scores of the complex were additionally put through molecular dynamics (MD) simulation analysis. MD simulations of the selected complex were performed at 100 ns to study the stability of the genistin-ubiquitin-like protein CA 15.3 complex, which appeared to be quite stable. Additionally, the ADMET study demonstrated that genistin complies with all drug-likeness standards, including Lipinski, Egan, Veber, Ghose, and Muegge. Therefore, based on the results, genistin can be considered as one of the potential drugs for the management and treatment of BC. In addition, the obtained results suggest that genistin could pave the way for new drug discovery to manage breast cancer and has potential in the development of nutraceuticals.", 
    "abstract": "To address the problem of insufficient real-world data on planetary gearboxes, which makes it difficult to diagnose faults using deep learning methods, it is possible to obtain sufficient simulation fault data through dynamic simulation models and then reduce the difference between simulation data and real data using transfer learning methods, thereby applying diagnostic knowledge from simulation data to real planetary gearboxes. However, the label space of real data may be a subset of the label space of simulation data. In this case, existing transfer learning methods are susceptible to interference from outlier label spaces in simulation data, resulting in mismatching. To address this issue, this paper introduces multiple domain classifiers and a weighted learning scheme on the basis of existing domain adversarial transfer learning methods to evaluate the transferability of simulation data and adaptively measure their contribution to label predictor and domain classifiers, filter the interference of unrelated categories of simulation data, and achieve accurate matching of real data. Finally, partial transfer experiments are conducted to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, and the experimental results show that the diagnostic accuracy of this method is higher than existing transfer learning methods.", 
    "abstract": "Prostate cancer is the second most dangerous cancer type worldwide. While various treatment options are present i.e. agonists and antagonists, their utilization leads to adverse effects and due to this resistance developing, ultimately the outcome is remission. So, to overcome this issue, we have undertaken an in-silico investigation to identify promising and unique flavonoid candidates for combating prostate cancer. Using GOLD software, the study assessed the effectiveness of 560 natural secondary polyphenols against CDKN2. Protein Data Bank was used to retrieve the 3D crystal structure of CDKN2 (PDB Id: 4EK3) and we retrieved the structure of selected secondary polyphenols from the PubChem database. The compound Diosmetin shows the highest GOLD score with the selected Protein i.e. CDKN2 which is 58.72. To better understand the 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional interactions, the interacting amino acid residues were visualised using Discovery Studio 3.5 and Maestro 13.5. Using Schrodinger-Glide, the Diosmetin and CDKN2 were re-docked, and decoy ligands were docked to CDKN2, which was used to further ascertain the study. The ligands with the highest Gold score were forecasted for pharmacokinetics characteristics, and the results were tabulated and analysed. Utilising the Gromacs software and Desmond packages, 100\u2009ns of Diosmetin molecular dynamics simulations were run to evaluate the structural persistence and variations of protein-ligand complexes. Additionally, our investigation revealed that Diosmetin had a better binding affinity with CDKN2 measuring 58.72, and it also showed remarkable stability across a 100-ns simulation. Thus, following ", 
    "abstract": "As one of the most important and directly affected infrastructure by flood disasters in urban areas, the road system plays a crucial role in maintaining the order of human production and life, as well as providing a foundation for the implementation of emergency response work in disaster scenarios. The existing flood resilience quantification methods based on maximum inundation depths of each individual road unit neglects the influences on flood resilience caused by the connectivity of road system. Therefore, this paper focuses on the road system, simulates the flood resilience of the road system in multiple disaster scenarios based on the functionality curve of road system under rainfall-inundation processes, then quantifies the improvement effect of Low Impact Development (LID) measures on flood resilience. A case study is conducted in Yunmen community, Jingdezhen city in China. The results indicate that: (1) The flood resilience of the road system decreases with the increase of rainfall intensity under different scenarios, and the magnitude of the decrease reduces. (2) The road system exhibits strong adaptability during the early stages of rainfall; The duration of functionality loss increases with increasing of rainfall intensity in different scenarios. (3) Implementation of LID measures can significantly improve system robustness by enhancing the reliability of the roads around critical nodes, thereby effectively enhancing flood resilience. The conclusions can provide a theoretical basis for decision-makers to develop urban flood mitigation engineering plans and resilience strategies tailored to local conditions.", 
    "abstract": "In this study the efficacy of different edible lipids for drug permeation enhancement of vancomycin through biological membrane was investigated using molecular dynamic simulation. In this regard, at first the ability of the lipids for complex formation with the drug was evaluated for number of most common edible lipids including tripalmitin (TPA), trimyristin (TMY), labrafil (LAB), glycerol monostearate (GMS), glycerol monooleate (GMO), Distearoylphosphorylethanolamine (DSPE), dipalmitoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DPPE), Dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), cholesterol (CL), stearic acid (SA), palmitic acid (PA) and oleic acid (OA). Then the complexes were pulled thorough a bilayer membrane while the changes in force were probed. The results showed that besides the SA, PA and OA the other examined lipids were able to perform a perfect molecular complex with the drug. Also the results of pulling simulation revealed that the least of force was needed for drug transmittance through the membrane when it was covered by LAB, TMY and DSPE. These results indicated that these lipids can be the excellent materials of choice as permeation enhancer for preparing a proper oral formulation of vancomycin.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Engineered titanium dioxide nanoparticles (nano-TiO", 
    "abstract": "In recent years, bone materials and cement innovation have made extraordinary strides. Calcium phosphate cement (CPC) regenerates body tissues and repairs bone and dental defects. Since the presence of nanoparticles (NPs) increased the initial cement strength in terms of the reduction of porosity, magnesium (Mg) NPs were used because of their unique properties. In this study, the effects of various Mg NP percentages and sizes on reinforced cement thermal behavior and mechanical behavior are investigated using the molecular dynamics (MD) simulation method. The changes of Young's modulus (YM), maximum temperature (MT), and ultimate strength (US) were investigated for this reason. The US, YM, and MT of the reinforced cement sample improved from 0.879 to 0.171\u00a0MPa to 1.326 and 0.255\u00a0MPa, respectively, and from 1321 to 1403\u00a0K by raising the NPs percentage to 4%. The radius increase of NPs to 16\u00a0\u00c5 enhanced the US, YM, and MT to 0.899\u00a0MPa, 0.179\u00a0MPa, and 1349\u00a0K. The MT decreased to 1275\u00a0K. The quantity and size of the Mg NPs significantly enhanced the mechanical behavior of the finished cement, according to the findings.", 
    "abstract": "This research investigated the antihypertensive effects of tamarind products and compared their potentials based on an animal model's data verified by molecular docking, multitarget interactions, and dynamic simulation assays. GC-MS-characterized tamarind products were administered to cholesterol-induced hypertensive albino rat models. The two-week-intervened animals were dissected to collect their serum and organs and respectively subjected to analyses of their hypertension-linked markers and tissue architectures. The lead biometabolites of tamarinds interacted with eight target receptors in the molecular docking and dynamic simulation studies and with multitarget in the network pharmacological analyses. The results show that the serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), C-reactive protein (CRP), troponin I, and lipid profiles were maximally reinstated by the phenolic-enriched ripened sour tamarind extract compared to the sweet one, but the seed extracts had a smaller influence. Among the tamarind's biometabolites, \u03d2-sitosterol was found to be the best ligand to interact with the guanylate cyclase receptor, displaying the best drug-likeliness with the highest binding energy, -9.3 Kcal. A multitargeted interaction-based degree algorithm and a phylogenetic tree of pathways showed that the ", 
    "abstract": "Current practices in synthesizing molecularly imprinted polymers face challenges-lengthy process, low-productivity, the need for expensive and sophisticated equipment, and they cannot be controlled in situ synthesis. Herein, we present a micro-reactor for in situ and continuously synthesizing trillions of molecularly imprinted polymeric nanoparticles that contain molecular fingerprints of bovine serum albumin in a short period of time (5-30\u2009min). Initially, we performed COMSOL simulation to analyze mixing efficiency with altering flow rates, and experimentally validated the platform for synthesizing nanoparticles with sizes ranging from 52-106\u2009nm. Molecular interactions between monomers and protein were also examined by molecular docking and dynamics simulations. Afterwards, we benchmarked the micro-reactor parameters through dispersity and concentration of molecularly imprinted polymers using principal component analysis. Sensing assets of molecularly imprinted polymers were examined on a metamaterial sensor, resulting in 81% of precision with high selectivity (4.5 times), and three cycles of consecutive use. Overall, our micro-reactor stood out for its high productivity (48-288 times improvement in assay-time and 2 times improvement in reagent volume), enabling to produce 1.4-1.5 times more MIPs at one-single step, and continuous production compared to conventional strategy.", 
    "abstract": "A series of chrysin derivatives were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their antibacterial activity against four different bacterial strains. We have synthesized new propyl-substituted and butyl-substituted chrysin-piperazine derivatives, which show marvellous inhibition against ", 
    "abstract": "We have investigated the interactions between a 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) drug and ZnO nanostructures including ZnO monolayers and ZnO nanotubes (ZnONTs) using density functional theory (DFT) calculations. In the context of the dispersion corrected Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) approach, the energetics, charge transfer, electronic structure and equilibrium geometries have been estimated. As ALA is adsorbed onto/into the ZnONTs and on the ZnO monolayer with interaction energies (", 
    "abstract": "The alarming increase in tick-borne pathogens such as human \nIn this study, a series of natural plant-based biomolecules were subjected to in-depth computational investigation to find the most potent inhibitors targeting major pathogenic proteins responsible for the diseases caused by these two pathogens.\nAmong them, most of the selected natural compounds are predicted to bind tightly to the targeted proteins that are crucial for the replication of these novel pathogens. Moreover, all the molecules have outstanding ADMET properties such as high aqueous solubility, a higher human gastrointestinal absorption rate, and a lack of any carcinogenic or hepatotoxic effects; most of them followed Lipinski's rule. Finally, the stability of the compounds was determined by molecular dynamics simulations (MDs) for 100\u2009ns. During MDs, we observed that the mentioned compounds have exceptional stability against selected pathogens.\nThese advanced computational strategies reported that 11 lead compounds, including dieckol and amentoflavone, exhibited high potency, excellent drug-like properties, and no toxicity. These compounds demonstrated strong binding affinities to the target enzymes, especially dieckol, which displayed superior stability during molecular dynamics simulations. The MM/PBSA method confirmed the favorable binding energies of amentoflavone and dieckol. However, further ", 
    "abstract": "Ibuprofen is a commonly used drug for treating headaches, pain, and fever. The lipid bilayer is the primary and most important interface for drugs to interact with biological systems. However, the molecular interactions between ibuprofen and the cell membrane are not well understood. Our findings suggest that the interactions between ibuprofen and the bilayer involve multiple steps and depend on the concentration of the drug. At low concentrations of ibuprofen, it can bind to the surface of the lipid bilayer. The electrostatic and vdW energies of IBU-lipid at 0 ns of the simulation were -22.5\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03.2 and -5.9\u00a0\u00b1\u00a01.2 kj.mol-1 Fig. 2. In the following, the vdW energy of the IBU-lipid was increased by around -134.6\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03.7 kj.mol-1 whereas the electrostatic energy of the IBU-lipid was significantly decreased. This binding is facilitated by electrostatic and vdW interactions between ibuprofen and the head group of lipids. In the second step, ibuprofen is inserted into the lipid bilayer and positioned at the interface between the bilayer and the aqueous phase. In high concentrations of ibuprofen, it moved to the central region of the lipid bilayer. At this concentration, the physical and structural properties of the cell membrane change significantly. Results from the radial distribution function analysis indicate that at low concentrations, ibuprofen molecules are situated close to the head groups of phosphate groups. However, at high concentrations of ibuprofen, these molecules move to the inner side of the lipid bilayer. In addition, our findings indicate that at low concentrations of ibuprofen, these molecules did not significantly alter the physical properties of the cell membrane. In contrast, at high concentrations of ibuprofen, the physical parameters of the hydrocarbon tails, such as thickness, fluidity, and order, changed dramatically. APL parameter for POPC membrane increased slightly to 0.60 and 0.63\u00a0nm", 
    "abstract": "The pyGROMODS, an easy-to-use cross-platform python-based package, with a graphical user interface, for the generation of molecular dynamic (MD) input files and running MD simulation (MDS) of proteins, peptides, and protein-ligand complex using GROMACS, is here presented. Four routes, with underlining Python scripts, are implemented in pyGROMODS for the generation of MD input files. They are 'RLmulti' for processing multi-ligand protein complex, 'RLmany' for processing multiple ligands against a single protein target, 'RLsingle' for processing multiple pairs of proteins and ligands, and 'PPmore' for processing peptides or proteins without ligands or non-standard residues. In addition, using the package, the generated input files or appropriate input files from other sources can be uploaded to run MDS with GROMACS. The pyGROMODS is implemented with a unique ability to search the host machine systems for the installation of the required software, update and/or install required Python packages, allow the user to pre-define working directory, and generate unique workflow organization with well-defined folders and files in a well-organized manner. The pyGROMODS, which is released under the MIT License, is freely available for download ", 
    "abstract": "Hydroxychloroquine sulfate (HCQ) can be used to treat various connective tissue diseases. Collagen, which is not only an important drug delivery carrier but also the main component in the connective tissue, is the focus of this study. Here, the interaction mechanism of HCQ with collagen was investigated through various spectroscopic and computational methods. It is found that HCQ binds to collagen spontaneously, primarily via hydrophobic interactions and some hydrogen bonds. The findings of X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) verified that formation of HCQ-collagen complex and the amorphous structure, secondary structures, and microstructure of collagen were changed after HCQ binding. A decrease in the relaxation time of free water was observed in the collagen system when HCQ was added. Molecular docking demonstrated that HCQ was almost buried in the cavity of collagen via some hydrophobic interactions with one hydrogen bond, which conforms to the findings of the fluorescence and FTIR analyses. Molecular dynamic (MD) simulations further revealed the structural change information in the docking process. Hopefully, the information generated in this study can provide some useful insights for the research on the pharmacological mechanisms of HCQ in the treatment of the connective tissue diseases and the application of collagen as a drug carrier.", 
    "abstract": "'Quantity-type' water shortages and 'quality-type' water shortages are important factors that constrain the security and coordinated development of regional water-energy-food nexus (WEFN) system, especially in arid areas where water is scarce. Therefore, it is of great significance to accurately identify the coupling and mutual feedback effects of the WEFN on different types of water resources demand. This information can be used to understand the regional WEFN and alleviate pressure on regional water resources. In this study, a new relationship diagram of the WEFN system was formed with the incorporation of the water footprint (WF), which can characterize a system's water demand, water source type, water pollution amount and pollution type. Based on this nexus, a WEFN system feedback model suitable for arid regions was established using the system dynamics approach. Taking Ningxia, China, as a case study, six future scenarios were designed, and the development trends of the WEFN system under different development scenarios were simulated to explore the impact of different policies on the WEFN. Finally, practical suggestions to promote the synergistic development of WEFN systems were proposed. The results indicate that the rational distinction between 'quantity-type' and 'quality-type' water resources can effectively alleviate the regional water stress and promote the coordinated development of water, energy and food. And the water security is the main factor that constrains the coordinated development of the WEFN system in Ningxia. Incorporating water environmental pollution policies into the water subsystem is necessary. Furthermore, the resource saving scenario and energy production restructuring adjustment scenario can effectively alleviate the energy security problems that has resulted from rapid economic development. In addition, Ningxia urgently needs to optimize its food production structure to address a continuous reduction in the food security index.", 
    "abstract": "During storage and processing, muscle proteins, e.g. myosin and myoglobin, will inevitably undergo degeneration, which is thus accompanied by quality deterioration of muscle foods. Some exogenous additives have been widely used to interact with muscle proteins to stabilize the quality of muscle foods. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation (MDS) are regarded as promising tools for recognizing dynamic molecular information at atomic level. Molecular docking and MDS can explore chemical bonds, specific binding sites, spatial structure changes, and binding energy between additives and muscle proteins. Development and workflow of molecular docking and MDS are systematically summarized in this review. Roles of molecular simulations are, for the first time, comprehensively discussed in recognizing the interaction details between muscle proteins and exogenous additives aimed for stabilizing color, texture, flavor, and other properties of muscle foods. Finally, research directions of molecular docking and MDS for improving the qualities of muscle foods are discussed.", 
    "abstract": "Cancer is a disease of mutation and lifestyle modifications. A large number of normal genes can transform normal cells to cancer cells due to their deregulations including overexpression and loss of expression. Signal transduction is a complex signaling process that involves multiple interactions and different functions. C-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) is an important protein involved in signaling process. JNK mediated pathways can detect, integrate, and amplify various external signals that may cause alterations in gene expression, enzyme activities, and different cellular functions that affect cellular behavior like metabolism, proliferation, differentiation, and cell survival. In this study, we performed molecular docking protocol (MOE) to predict the binding interactions of some known anticancer 1-hydroxynaphthalene-2-carboxanilides candidates. A set of 10 active compounds was retrieved after initial screening on the basis of docking scores, binding energies, and number of interactions and was re-docked in the active site of JNK protein. The results were further validated through molecular dynamics simulation and MMPB/GBSA calculations. The active compounds 4p and 5\u00a0k were ranked on top. After computationally exploring interactions of 1-hydroxynaphthalene-2-carboxanilides with JNK protein, we believe compounds 4p and 5\u00a0k can serve as potential inhibitors of JNK protein. It is believed that the results of current research would help to develop novel and structurally diverse anticancer compounds that will be useful not only treat cancer but also for the medication for the other diseases caused by protein deregulation.", 
    "abstract": "The novel synthetic amino acid-like zwitterion containing imine bond ionic compound 2-[(", 
    "abstract": "Transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2 initially relies on its trimeric Spike-RBDs to tether the ACE-2 on host cells, and enhanced self-association of ACE-2 engaged with Spike facilitates the viral infection. Two primary packing modes of Spike-ACE2 heteroproteins exist potentially due to discrepant amounts of RBDs loading on ACE-2, but the resultant self-association difference is inherently unclear. We used extensive coarse-grained dynamic simulations to characterize the self-association efficiency, the conformation relevance, and the molecular mechanism of ACE-2 with different RBD amounts. It was revealed that the ACE-2 hanging two/full RBDs (Mode-A) rapidly dimerized into the heteroprotein complex in a compact \"linear\" conformation, while the bare ACE-2 showed weakened self-association and a protein complex. The RBD-tethered ectodomains of ACE-2 presented a more upright conformation relative to the membrane, and the intermolecular ectodomains were predominantly packed by the neck domains, which was obligated to the rapid protein self-association in a compact pattern. Noted is the fact that the ACE-2 tethered by a single RBD (Mode-B) retained considerable self-association efficiency and clustering capability, which unravels the interrelation of ACE-2 colocalization and protein cross-linkage. The molecular perspectives in this study expound the self-association potency of ACE-2 with different RBD amounts and the viral activity implications, which can greatly enhance our comprehension of SARS-CoV-2 infection details.", 
    "abstract": "\u03b1-Amylase play important role in hydrolyses of \u03b1-bonds of large \u03b1-linked polysaccharides; thus, it is a potential drug target in diabetes mellites (DM) and its inhibition is one of the therapeutic strategies in DM. With the aim to discover novel and safer therapeutic molecules to combat diabetes, a huge dataset of \u223c0.69 billion compounds from ZINC20 database were screened against \u03b1-amylase using multi-fold structure-based virtual screening protocol. Based on receptor-based pharmacophore model, docking results, pharmacokinetic profile, molecular interactions with \u03b1-amylase, several compounds were retrieved as lead candidates to be further scrutinized in the ", 
    "abstract": "In this study, \nThe results showed the effectiveness of flavonoids, such as daidzein, genistein, kaempferol, and quercetin, in the DBP binding site. These flavonoids were found to bind in the active region of DBP. Furthermore, the stability of these four ligands was maintained throughout the 50 ns simulation, maintaining stable hydrogen bond formation with the active site residues of DBP.\nThe present study suggests that flavonoids might be good candidates and novel agents against DBP-mediated RBC invasion of ", 
    "abstract": "Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a blood cancer caused by the abnormal proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow. The actual genetic markers and molecular mechanisms of AML prognosis are unclear till today. This study used bioinformatics approaches for identifying hub genes and pathways associated with AML development to uncover potential molecular mechanisms. The expression profiles of RNA-Seq datasets, GSE68925 and GSE183817, were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. These two datasets were analyzed by GREIN to obtain differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were used for performing the Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway, protein-protein interaction (PPI), and survival analysis. The molecular docking and dynamic simulation were performed to identify the most effective drug/s for AML from the drug list approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). By integrating the two datasets, 238 DEGs were identified as likely to be affected by AML progression. GO enrichment analyses exhibited that the upregulated genes were mainly associated with inflammatory response (BP) and extracellular region (CC). The downregulated DEGs were involved in the T-cell receptor signalling pathway (BP), an integral component of the lumenal side of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane (CC) and peptide antigen binding (MF). The pathway enrichment analysis showed that the upregulated DEGs were mainly associated with the T-cell receptor signalling pathway. Among the top 15 hub genes, the expression levels of ", 
    "abstract": "The mutations concerned with non-small cell lung cancer involving epidermal growth factor receptor of tyrosine kinase family have primarily targeted. In this study, we employed a scalable high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS) framework and a targeted compound library of over 50.000 Erlotinib-derived compounds as noncovalent reversible EGFR", 
    "abstract": "Sphingosine kinase 1 (SphK1) has been widely recognized as a significant contributor to various types of cancer, including breast, lung, prostate, and hematological cancers. This research aimed to find a potential SphK1 inhibitor through a step-by-step virtual screening of PF543 (a known SphK1 inhibitor)-like compounds obtained from the PubChem library with the Tanimoto threshold of 80\u00a0%. The virtual screening process included several steps, namely physicochemical and ADMET evaluation, PAINS filtering, and molecular docking, followed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation and principal component analysis (PCA). The results showed that compound CID:58293960 ((3R)-1,1-dioxo-2-[[3-[(4-phenylphenoxy)methyl]phenyl]methyl]-1,2-thiazolidine-3-carboxylic acid) demonstrated high potential as SphK1 inhibitor. All-atom MD simulations were performed for 100\u00a0ns to evaluate the stability and structural changes of the docked complexes in an aqueous environment. The analysis of the time evolution data of structural deviations, compactness, PCA, and free energy landscape (FEL) indicated that the binding of CID:58293960 with SphK1 is relatively stable throughout the simulation. The results of this study provide a platform for the discovery and development of new anticancer therapeutics targeting SphK1.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative condition characterized by progressive cognitive impairment. While the formation of \u03b2-amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are the hallmarks features of AD, the downstream consequence of these byproducts is the disruption of the cholinergic and glutamatergic neural systems. Growing evidence for the existence of interplay between AChE and NMDARs has opened up new venues for the discovery of novel ligands endowed with anticholinesterase and NMDAR-blocking activity. Plants belonging to the stachys genus have been extensively explored for having a broad range of therapeutic applications and have been used traditionally for millennia, to treat various CNS-related disorders, which makes them the ideal source of novel therapeutics. The present study was designed to identify natural dual-target inhibitors for AChE and NMDAR deriving from stachys genus for their potential use in AD. Using molecular docking, drug-likeness-profiling, MD simulation and MMGBSA calculations, an in-house database of biomolecules pertaining to the stachys genus was shortlisted based on their binding affinity, overall stability and critical ADMET parameters. Pre- and post-MD analysis revealed that Isoorientin effectively binds to AChE and NMDAR with various vital interactions, exhibits a stable behavior with minor fluctuations relative to two clinical drugs used as positive control, and displays strong and consistent interactions that lasted for the majority of the simulation. Findings from this study have elucidated the rationale behind the traditional use of Stachys plants for the treatment of AD and could provide new impetus for the development of novel dual-target therapeutics for AD treatment.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "In cases of terrorism, disasters, or mass casualty incidents, far-reaching life-and-death decisions about prioritizing patients are currently made using triage algorithms that focus solely on the patient's current health status rather than their prognosis, thus leaving a fatal gap of patients who are under- or overtriaged.\nThe aim of this proof-of-concept study is to demonstrate a novel approach for triage that no longer classifies patients into triage categories but ranks their urgency according to the anticipated survival time without intervention. Using this approach, we aim to improve the prioritization of casualties by respecting individual injury patterns and vital signs, survival likelihoods, and the availability of rescue resources.\nWe designed a mathematical model that allows dynamic simulation of the time course of a patient's vital parameters, depending on individual baseline vital signs and injury severity. The 2 variables were integrated using the well-established Revised Trauma Score (RTS) and the New Injury Severity Score (NISS). An artificial patient database of unique patients with trauma (N=82,277) was then generated and used for analysis of the time course modeling and triage classification. Comparative performance analysis of different triage algorithms was performed. In addition, we applied a sophisticated, state-of-the-art clustering method using the Gower distance to visualize patient cohorts at risk for mistriage.\nThe proposed triage algorithm realistically modeled the time course of a patient's life, depending on injury severity and current vital parameters. Different casualties were ranked by their anticipated time course, reflecting their priority for treatment. Regarding the identification of patients at risk for mistriage, the model outperformed the Simple Triage And Rapid Treatment's triage algorithm but also exclusive stratification by the RTS or the NISS. Multidimensional analysis separated patients with similar patterns of injuries and vital parameters into clusters with different triage classifications. In this large-scale analysis, our algorithm confirmed the previously mentioned conclusions during simulation and descriptive analysis and underlined the significance of this novel approach to triage.\nThe findings of this study suggest the feasibility and relevance of our model, which is unique in terms of its ranking system, prognosis outline, and time course anticipation. The proposed triage-ranking algorithm could offer an innovative triage method with a wide range of applications in prehospital, disaster, and emergency medicine, as well as simulation and research.", 
    "abstract": "This study investigates the interaction between montmorillonite and polyacrylamide (PAM) with different ionic types using quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D) and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The goal was to understand the effect of ionicity and ionic type on polymer deposition on montmorillonite surfaces. The results of the QCM-D analysis showed that a decrease in pH led to an increase in the adsorption of montmorillonite on the alumina surface. The ranking of adsorption mass on alumina and pre-adsorbed montmorillonite alumina surfaces was found to be cationic polyacrylamide (CPAM) > polyacrylamide (NPAM) > anionic polyacrylamide (APAM). The study also found that CPAM had the strongest bridging effect on montmorillonite nanoparticles, followed by NPAM, while APAM had a negligible bridging effect. The MD simulations showed that ionicity had a significant influence on the adsorption of polyacrylamides. The cationic functional group N(CH", 
    "abstract": "Dosage-sensitive sex reversal, adrenal hypoplasia critical region, on chromosome X, gene 1 (DAX1) is an orphan nuclear receptor encoded by the ", 
    "abstract": "Musk xylene (MX), a kind of personal care product, has become a new type of environmental contaminant in recent years. Long-term exposure to MX is associated with a variety of cancers, but the mechanism is still unclear. Meanwhile, our previous research showed that MX exposure could lead to malignant transformation of human liver cells L02 and up-regulation of multi genes which are involved in the MAPK signaling pathway, such as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). These findings indicated that the MAPK signaling pathway might be involved in the malignant transformation caused by MX, but the mechanism is also unclear. In this study, the underlying interaction mechanisms between EGFR and MX were investigated using molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. Results revealed that MX bound to the ECD of EGFR in four binding sites, which was mainly driven by van der Waals and nonpolar interactions, and the affinity of MX toward ECD was sIII > sI > sII > sIV. Further analysis through MD simulation found that s III, the site with the strongest binding, was coincidentally located at the binding area of EGF, which is the natural ligand of EGFR. Therefore, we speculated that MX may activate the MAPK signaling pathway by binding to EGFR in a similar way to EGF, and finally lead to tumorigenesis. In addition, the MM/PBSA method could also be utilized to calculate the hot residues in each binding site. The prediction of hot residues would provide some theoretical guidance for further study of the carcinogenesis mechanisms of MX both in MD simulation and experimental research.", 
    "abstract": "Alpha-7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (\u03b17nAChR), a ligand-gated ion channel is one of the important parts of the cholinergic pathway in the brain and has a remarkable role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been documented that the modulation of \u03b17nAChR with the help of phytoconstituent can be helpful in the treatment of AD.\nThe binding efficacy of fifty flavonoids was evaluated for human \u03b17nAChR using molecular docking. The best two flavonoids shortlisted from docking analysis were then subjected to molecular dynamic simulations for 100\u2005ns to analyze conformational binding stability with the target protein. Further, the druggability of the selected flavonoids was checked using in silico ADMET studies.\nThe top two flavonoids selected based on binding affinity toward the binding site of \u03b17nAChR from molecular docking were amentoflavone (-9.1\u2005kcal/mol) and gallocatechin (-8.8\u2005kcal/mol). The molecular dynamics simulation revealed that amentoflavone and gallocatechin have a stable state during overall simulation time, lesser root mean deviation (RMSD) and root mean square fluctuation (RMSF), and complex of both compounds with protein is stable until 100\u2005ns.\nThe two flavonoids amentoflavone and gallocatechin are potential lead molecules that could be utilized as effective agonists of \u03b17nAChR to combat Alzheimer's disease. Future in\u2005vitro and in\u2005vivo analyses are required to confirm their effectiveness.", 
    "abstract": "Alopecia is a condition in which hair on the scalp or other areas of the body is lost or falls out excessively. Nutritional deficiency causes blood flow to the head to decrease causing the hormone testosterone to be changed by the enzyme 5-\u03b1-reductase to dihydrotestosterone, which inhibits the growth phase and accelerates the death phase. One of the methods developed to treat alopecia is through inhibition of the 5-\u03b1-reductase enzyme, which converts testosterone to its more potent metabolite, dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Ethnomedicinally, ", 
    "abstract": "Damage to the sensory hair cells in the cochlea is a major cause of hearing loss since human sensory hair cells do not regenerate naturally after damage. As these sensory hair cells are exposed to a vibrating lymphatic environment, they may be affected by physical flow. It is known that the outer hair cells (OHCs) are physically more damaged by sound than the inner hair cells (IHCs). In this study, the lymphatic flow is compared using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) based on the arrangement of the OHCs, and the effects of such flow on the OHCs is analyzed. In addition, flow visualization is used to validate the Stokes flow. The Stokes flow behavior is attributed to the low Reynolds number, and the same behavior is observed even when the flow direction is reversed. When the distance between the rows of the OHCs is large, each row is independent, but when this distance is short, the flow change in each row influences the other rows. The stimulation caused by flow changes on the OHCs is confirmed through surface pressure and shear stress. The OHCs located at the base with a short distance between the rows receive excess hydrodynamic stimulation, and the tip of the V-shaped pattern receives an excess mechanical force. This study attempts to understand the contributions of lymphatic flow to OHC damage by quantitatively suggesting stimulation of the OHCs and is expected to contribute to the development of OHC regeneration technologies in the future.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease is associated with accumulating different amyloid peptides on the nerve cell membranes. The non-thermal effects of the GHz electric fields in this topic have yet to be well recognized. Hence, in this study, the impacts of 1 and 5\u00a0GHz electric fields on the amyloid peptide proteins accumulation on the cell membrane have been investigated, utilizing molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. The obtained results indicated that this range of electric fields did not significantly affect the peptide structure. Moreover, it was found that the peptide penetration into the membrane was increased as the field frequency was increased when the system was exposed to a 20 mv/nm oscillating electric field. In addition, it was observed that the protein-membrane interaction is reduced significantly in the presence of the 70 mv/nm electric field. The molecular level results reported in this study could be helpful in better understanding Alzheimer's disease.", 
    "abstract": "The leaves of Rumex vescarius L. are used locally to treat diabetes, a chronic illness. A flavonoid called Luteolin from R. vesicarius was chosen to explore for the antidiabetic potential through the in vivo antidiabetic test against male albino Wistar rats that had been induced with diabetes due to alloxan. Additionally, docking screening was carried out with the aid of autodock software to identify probable moiety that might be in charge of its anti-diabetic effect. Given at a dose of 100\u2009mg/kg body weight, luteolin from R. vesicarius leaves had a significant (", 
    "abstract": "Diabetes mellitus is a metabolic disorder where insulin secretion is compromised, leading to hyperglycemia. DPP-4 is a viable and safer target for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Computational tools have proven to be an asset in the process of drug discovery.\nIn the present study, tools like structure-based virtual screening, MM/GBSA, and pharmacokinetic parameters were used to identify natural terpenoids as potential DPP-4 inhibitors for treating diabetes mellitus.\nStructure-based virtual screening, a cumulative mode of elimination technique, was adopted, identifying the top five potent hit compounds depending on the docking score and nonbonding interactions.\nAccording to the docking data, the most important contributors to complex stability are hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic interactions, and Pi-Pi stacking interactions. The dock scores ranged from -6.492 to -5.484 kcal/mol, indicating robust ligand-protein interactions. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of top-scoring hits (CNP0309455, CNP0196061, CNP0122006, CNP0 221869, CNP0297378) were also computed in this study, confirming their safe administration in the human body. Also, based on the synthetic accessibility score, all top-scored hits are easily synthesizable. Compound CNP0309455 was quite stable during molecular dynamic simulation studies.\nVirtual database screening yielded new leads for developing DPP-4 inhibitors. As a result, the findings of this study can be used to design and develop natural terpenoids as DPP-4 inhibitors for the medication of diabetes mellitus.", 
    "abstract": "New series of thioquinoline structures bearing phenylacetamide 9a-p were designed, synthesized and the structure of all derivatives was confirmed using different spectroscopic techniques including FTIR, ", 
    "abstract": "Since dysregulation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase gamma (PI3K\u03b3) signaling pathway is associated with the pathogenesis of cancer, inflammation, and autoimmunity, PI3K\u03b3 has emerged as an attractive target for drug development. IPI-549 is the only selective PI3K\u03b3 inhibitor that has advanced to clinical trials, thus, IPI-549 could serve as a promising template for designing novel PI3K\u03b3 inhibitors. In this present study, a modeling strategy consisting of common feature pharmacophore modeling, receptor-ligand pharmacophore modeling, and molecular dynamics simulation was utilized to identify the key pharmacodynamic characteristic elements of the target compound and the key residue information of the PI3K\u03b3 interaction with the inhibitors. Then, 10 molecules were designed based on the structure-activity relationships, and some of them exhibited satisfactory predicted binding affinities to PI3K\u03b3. Finally, a hierarchical multistage virtual screening method, involving the developed common feature and receptor-ligand pharmacophore model and molecular docking, was constructed for screening the potential PI3K\u03b3 inhibitors. Overall, we hope these findings would provide some guidance for the development of novel PI3K\u03b3 inhibitors.", 
    "abstract": "Thermal conductivities of polybutadiene crosslinked with sulfur as a function of the heat flux autocorrelation function by using an equilibrium molecular dynamic (EMD) simulation were investigated. The Green-Kubo method was used to calculate thermal conductivities. All simulations were performed by applying the LAMMPS software (version 3 Mar 2020) package. The united-atom force field (OPLS-UA) from the Moltemplate software (version 2.20.3) was applied in the simulations. The influence of uniform and random distributions of sulfur in polybutadiene on the final value of thermal conductivities was studied by polymeric model structures with similar and variable degrees of crosslinking. The results showed that for identical degrees of crosslinking, the distribution of crosslinkers in the polymeric model structures significantly influenced the final value of thermal conductivity. Moreover, the influence of the crosslinking degree on the final value of thermal conductivity was studied by considering polymeric model structures with different degrees of crosslinking. The results demonstrate that by having a random distribution of sulfur, the thermal conductivity will be enhanced. However, by increasing the degree of crosslinking to the higher percentage in random crosslinked model structures, the value of thermal conductivity drops significantly due to possible higher crystallization of the model structures, which decrease the degree of freedom for phonon contributions.", 
    "abstract": "Chitosan/bentonite beads (CsB) composites were prepared from chitosan (Cs) and bentonite (B) and cross-linked with epichlorohydrin for removal of reactive orange 16 (RO16) and methylene blue (MB). The adsorption results have shown that the (Cs20B80), 20\u00a0% wt of (Cs) and 80\u00a0% (B), was selected as the best adsorbent for (MB) and (RO16) dyes. SEM, EDX, FTIR, BET, and pHpzc were implemented to investigate the features of Cs, B, and Cs20B80 samples. The influence of contact time (0-72\u00a0h), initial RO16 concentration (15-300\u00a0mg/L), temperature (30, 40, and 50\u00a0\u00b0C), the quantity of adsorbent (1-4\u00a0g/L), ion strength (0.1-1\u00a0M), and solution pH (3-10) on RO16 adsorption onto Cs20B80 were explored. The pseudo-second-order and the Langmuir models fit adequately the adsorption kinetic results and the isotherms ones respectively. Also, the maximal monolayer capacities calculated using the non-linear form of the Langmuir isotherm are 55.27, 55.29, and 70.80\u00a0mg/g, at 30, 40 and 50\u00a0\u00b0C. Based to the statistical physics model, the RO16 could be retained on the surface of Cs20B80 through a non-parallel orientation. The RO16 adsorption process is endothermic and natural, as demonstrated by thermodynamic studies. After three regeneration cycles, the Cs20B80 composite has shown an adsorption capacity of around 20\u00a0% compared to the initial one. The adsorption energy of RO16 onto Cs, B, and Cs20B80 examined using the Monte Carlo simulation method (MC) ranged from -164.8 to -303.7 (kcal/mol), showing the potential of the three adsorbants for RO16 dye. Also, the process of adsorption of RO16 dye on the surface of Cs20B80 composite indicates several kinds of physical interactions, involving electrostatic interaction, hydrogen bonding, and \u03c0-\u03c0 interactions, this finding was proved theoretically via molecular dynamic simulations.", 
    "abstract": "Protein glycation can result in the formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), which pose a potential health risk due to their association with diabetic complications. Natural products are a source of drugs discovery and the search for potential natural inhibitors of AGEs is of great significance. Glucosinolates (GSLs) mainly from cruciferous plants have potential antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-glycation activities. In this study, the inhibitory activity of GSLs on bovine serum albumin (BSA) along with its mechanism was investigated by virtual screening and various computational simulation techniques. Virtual screening revealed that 174 GSLs were screened using Maestro based on the glide score and 89% of the compounds were found to have potential anti-glycation ability with the docking scores less than -5\u2009kcal/mol. Molecular docking showed that the top 10 GSLs were bound to the IIA structural domain of BSA. Among them, glucohesperin (1) and 2-hydroxyethyl glucosinolate (2) had the lowest docking scores of -9.428 and -9.333\u2009kcal/mol, respectively, reflecting their good binding affinity. Molecular dynamics simulations of 1 (\u0394G\u2009=\u2009-43.46\u2009kcal/mol) and 2 (\u0394G\u2009=\u2009-43.71\u2009kcal/mol) revealed that the complexes of these two compounds with proteins had good stability. Further binding site analysis suggested that the mechanism of inhibition of protein glycation by these two active ingredients might be through competitive hydrogen bonding to maintain the structural integrity of the protein, thus inhibiting glycation reaction. Moreover, the ADMET values and CYP450 metabolism prediction data were within the recommended values. Therefore, it can be concluded that 1 and 2 may act as potential anti-glycation agents.", 
    "abstract": "In 2020, WHO recommended the addition of peripartum antiviral prophylaxis (PAP) to hepatitis B birth dose vaccination (HepB-BD) and hepatitis B infant vaccination (HepB3) to reduce mother-to-child transmission of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in pregnant women who have a marker of high infectivity (ie, HBV DNA \u2265200\u2009000 international units per mL or HBeAg-positive). We aimed to evaluate the impact and cost-effectiveness of this recommendation and of a theoretical simplified strategy whereby PAP is given to all pregnant women who are HBsAg-positive without risk stratification.\nThis modelling study used a dynamic simulation model of the HBV epidemic in 110 countries in all WHO regions, structured by age, sex, and country. We assessed three strategies of scaling up PAP for pregnant women: PAP for those with high viral load (PAP-VL); PAP for those who are HBeAg-positive (PAP-HBeAg); and PAP for all pregnant women who are HBsAg-positive (PAP-universal), in comparison with neonatal vaccination alone (HepB-BD). We investigated how different diagnostic and antiviral drug costs affected the cost-effectiveness of the strategies evaluated. Using a health-care provider perspective, we calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in cost (US$) per disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) averted in each country's population and compared these with country-specific cost-effectiveness thresholds. We also calculated new neonatal infections averted for each of the strategies.\nAdding PAP-VL to HepB-BD could avert around 1\u00b71 million (95% uncertainty interval 1\u00b70 million-1\u00b72 million) new neonatal infections by 2030 and around 3\u00b72 million (95% uncertainty interval 3\u00b70 million-3\u00b74 million) new neonatal infections and approximately 8\u00b78 million (7\u00b78 million-9\u00b77 million) DALYs by 2100 across all the countries modelled. This strategy would probably be cost-effective up to 2100 in 28 (26%) of 106 countries analysed (which included some of the countries that have the greatest HBV burden) if costs are as currently expected to be, and in 74 (70%) countries if diagnostic and monitoring costs were lowered (by about 60-75%). The relative cost-effectiveness of PAP-VL and PAP-HBeAg was finely balanced and depended on the respective diagnostic and monitoring costs. The PAP-universal strategy could be more cost-effective than either of these strategies in most countries, but the use of antiviral treatment could be five times as high than with PAP-VL.\nPAP can provide substantial health benefits, and, although the current approach might already be cost-effective in some high-burden settings, decreased diagnostic costs would probably be needed for PAP to be cost-effective in most countries. Therefore, careful consideration needs to be given about how such a strategy is implemented, and securing reduced costs for diagnostics should be a priority. The theoretical strategy of offering PAP to all women who are HBsAg-positive (eg, if diagnostic tests to identify mothers at risk of transmission are not available) could be a cost-effective alternative, depending on prevailing costs of diagnostics and antiviral therapy.\nUK Medical Research Council, UK National Institute for Health and Care Research, and the Vaccine Impact Modelling Consortium.", 
    "abstract": "Vancomycin resistance in enterococci mainly arises due to alteration in terminal peptidoglycan dipeptide. A comprehensive structural analysis for substrate specificity of dipeptide modifying d-Alanine: d-Serine ligase (Ddls) is essential to screen its inhibitors for combating vancomycin resistance. In this study modeled 3D structure of EgDdls from E. gallinarum was used for structure based virtual screening (SBVS) of oxadiazole derivatives. Initially, fifteen oxadiazole derivatives were identified as inhibitors at the active site of EgDdls from PubChem database. Further, four EgDdls inhibitors were evaluated using pharmacokinetic profile and molecular docking. The results of molecular docking showed that oxadiazole inhibitors could bind preferentially at ATP binding pocket with the lowest binding energy. Further, molecular dynamics simulation results showed stable behavior of EgDdls in complex with screened inhibitors. The residues Phe172, Lys174, Glu217, Phe292, and Asn302 of EgDdls were mainly involved in interactions with screened inhibitors. Furthermore, MM-PBSA calculation showed electrostatic and van der Waals interactions mainly contribute to overall binding energy. The PCA analysis showed motion of central domain and omega loop of EgDdls. This is involved in the formation of native dipeptide and stabilized after binding of 2-(1-(Ethylsulfonyl) piperidin-4-yl)-5-(furan-2-yl)-1,3,4-oxadiazole, which could be reason for the inhibition of EgDdls. Hence, in this study we have screened inhibitors of EgDdls which could be useful to alleviate the vancomycin resistance problem in enterococci, involved in hospital-acquired infections, especially urinary tract infections (UTI).", 
    "abstract": "COVID-19, the disease responsible for the recent pandemic, is caused by a novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The main protease (Mpro) of SARS-CoV-2 is an essential proteolytic enzyme that plays a number of important roles in the replication of the virus in human host cells. Blocking the function of SARS-CoV-2 Mpro offers a promising and targeted, therapeutic option for the treatment of the COVID-19 infection. Such an inhibitory strategy is currently successful in treating COVID-19 under FDA's emergency use authorization, although with limited benefit to the immunocompromised along with an unfortunate number of side effects and drug-drug interactions. Current COVID vaccines protect against severe disease and death but are mostly ineffective toward long COVID which has been seen in 5-36% of patients. SARS-CoV-2 is a rapidly mutating virus and is here to stay endemically. Hence, alternate therapeutics to treat SARS-CoV-2 infections are still needed. Moreover, because of the high degree of conservation of Mpro among different coronaviruses, any newly developed antiviral agents should better prepare us for potential future epidemics or pandemics. In this paper, we first describe the design and computational docking of a library of novel 188 first-generation peptidomimetic protease inhibitors using various electrophilic warheads with aza-peptide epoxides, \u03b1-ketoesters, and \u03b2-diketones identified as the most effective. Second-generation designs, 192 compounds in total, focused on aza-peptide epoxides with drug-like properties, incorporating dipeptidyl backbones and heterocyclic ring motifs such as proline, indole, and pyrrole groups, yielding 8 hit candidates. These novel and specific inhibitors for SARS-CoV-2 Mpro can ultimately serve as valuable alternate and broad-spectrum antivirals against COVID-19.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Food preservation is a schematic and scientific procedure employed for the maintenance and improvement of food's quality, shelf life, and nutritional value. Although, on one hand, ancient conventional methods such as freezing, pasteurization, canning, and chemical methods have the potential to lengthen the shelf life of edible substances, but on the other hand, they can deteriorate its nutritional value as well. Present research focuses on the identification of promising bacteriocins against Pseudomonas fragi via subtractive proteomics pipeline as an alternative approach for food preservation. Bacteriocins are small peptides produced by certain microbes to naturally defend themselves by destroying other closely related bacteria residing in their neighborhood. P. fragi lies among the most notable microbes responsible for the elicitation of food spoilage. Due to increasing emergence and prevalence of multidrug resistance bacteria, there is a need to unravel novel drug targets, crucially involved in food decay process. Based on subtractive scrutinization, UDP-N-acetylglucosamine O-acyltransferase (LpxA) was chosen as promising therapeutic protein target that could play a significant role in progression of food spoilage. Subtilosin A, thuricin-CD, and mutacin B-NY266 were found as the most robust inhibitors of LpxA according to the molecular docking assay results. Molecular dynamic simulations and binding energy calculations via MM/PBSA method of LpxA and three top hit docked complexes, i.e., LpxA-subtilosin A, LpxA-thuricin-CD, and LpxA-mutacin B-NY266, revealed stability throughout simulations and ensured that shortlisted bacteriocins had strong affinity for LpxA.", 
    "abstract": "Pyrimidine and its derivatives are associated with varieties of biological properties. Therefore, we herein reported the synthesis of four novel pyrimidines (", 
    "abstract": "The temporal pattern of water-rock interaction is significant in predicting the ion concentration of the effluent in coal mine underground reservoirs. This study used the roof-caved rock samples and main incoming water (mine water and fissure water) of the Daliuta coal underground reservoir as the research object and designed four groups of dynamic simulation experiments of the water-rock interaction. Based on the main ion concentrations in the water sample at different reaction times, Q-type hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA) was used to classify the stages of water-rock interaction. The types and intensities of water-rock interaction in each stage were identified by combining the ion ratio and principal component analysis (PCA). Q-type HCA shows that the dynamic simulation experimental water samples can be divided into three categories according to the reaction time, representing the early, middle, and late stages of the water-rock interaction process. The influence of water quality on the division of the water-rock interaction stage is greater than that of rock characteristics. The ion ratio and PCA show that the dissolution of pyrite minerals, cation exchange reaction, and mineral adsorption mainly occur in the early stage of water-rock interaction, in which the cation exchange reaction plays a leading role in the change of ions in water. In the middle stage, the cation exchange reaction and the dissolution of carbonate minerals, such as calcite and dolomite, mainly occur, in which mineral dissolution is the main. In the late stage, the water-rock interaction is relatively weak, and the change of ion concentration in water is not obvious. This study proves the temporal patterns of water-rock interaction between caved rock and mine water (or fissure water) and differences in the types and intensities of water-rock interaction in each stage. The results can provide a theoretical basis for the optimization of the operation cycle of coal mine underground reservoirs and the prediction of effluent ion concentration.", 
    "abstract": "The Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway is a crucial regulator of various cellular processes. Dysregulated activation of the Smoothened (SMO) oncoprotein, a key component of the Hh pathway, has been implicated in several types of cancer. Although SMO inhibitors are important anti-cancer therapeutics, drug-resistant SMO mutants have emerged, limiting their efficacy. This study aimed to discover stable SMO inhibitors for both wild-type and mutant SMOs, using a 12-feature pharmacophore model validated for virtual screening. One lead compound, LCT10312, was identified with high affinity to SMO and showed a significant conformational change in the SMO structure upon binding. Molecular dynamic simulation revealed stable interaction of LCT10312 with SMO and large atom motions, indicating SMO structural fluctuation. The lead compound showed high predicted binding scores to several clinically relevant SMO mutants.\nA ligand-based pharmacophore model was developed from 25 structurally clustered SMO inhibitors using LigandScout v3.12 software and virtually screened for hit identification from a library of 511,878 chemicals. Molecular docking was employed to identify potential leads based on SMO affinities. Molecular dynamic simulation (MDS) with GROMACS v5.1.4 was performed to analyze the structural changes of SMO oncoprotein upon binding lead compound(s) and cyclopamine as the control for 100 ns. The binding affinity of lead compound(s) was predicted on clinical and laboratory SMO mutants.", 
    "abstract": "In the replication of SARS-CoV-2, the main protease (Mpro/3CLpro) is significant. It is conserved in a number of novel coronavirus variations, and no known human proteases share its cleavage sites. Therefore, 3CLpro is an ideal target. In the report, we screened five potential inhibitors (1543, 2308, 3717, 5606, and 9000) of SARS-CoV-2 Mpro through a workflow. The calculation of MM-GBSA binding free energy showed that three of the five potential inhibitors (1543, 2308, 5606) had similar inhibitor effects to X77 against Mpro of SARS-CoV-2. In conclusion, the manuscript lays the groundwork for the design of Mpro inhibitors.\nIn the virtual screening phase, we used structure-based virtual screening (Qvina2.1) and ligand-based virtual screening (AncPhore). In the molecular dynamic simulation part, we used the Amber14SB\u2009+\u2009GAFF force field to perform molecular dynamic simulation of the complex for 100\u00a0ns (Gromacs2021.5) and performed MM-GBSA binding free energy calculation according to the simulation trajectory.", 
    "abstract": "4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD) herbicides control broadleaf and gramineous weeds with better crop safety for corn, sorghum and wheat. Multiple screening models in silico have been established to obtain novel lead compounds as HPPD inhibition herbicides.\nTopomer comparative molecular field analysis (CoMFA) combined with topomer search technology and Bayesian, genetic approximation functions (GFA) and multiple linear regression (MLR) models generated by calculating different descriptors were constructed for the quinazolindione derivatives of HPPD inhibitors. The coefficient of determination (r\nIn this study, five compounds were obtained through multiple quantitative structure-activity relationship screening. Molecular docking and MD experiments showed that the constructed approach had good screening ability for HPPD inhibitors. This work provided molecular structural information for developing novel, highly efficient and low-toxicity HPPD inhibitors. \u00a9 2023 Society of Chemical Industry.", 
    "abstract": "Overexpression of casein kinase-2 (CK2) has been implicated in several carcinomas, mainly lung, prostate and acute myeloid leukaemia. The smaller nucleotide pocket compared to related kinases provides a great opportunity to discover newer ATP-competitive CK2 inhibitors. In this study, we have employed an integrated structure- and fragment-based design strategy to design 2-amino-6-methyl-pyrimidine benzoic acids as ATP-competitive CK2 inhibitors. A statistically significant four features-based E-pharmacophore (ARRR) model was used to screen 780,092 molecules. Further, the retrieved hits were considered for molecular docking study to identify essential binding interactions. At the same time, fragment-based virtual screening was performed using a dataset of 1,542,397 fragments. The identified hits and fragments were used as structure templates to rationalize the design of 2-amino-6-methyl-pyrimidine benzoic acids as newer CK2 inhibitors. Finally, the binding interactions of the designed hits were identified using an induced fit docking (IFD) study, and their stability was estimated by a molecular dynamics (MD) simulation study of 100 ns.", 
    "abstract": "Over the past few years, COVID-19 has caused widespread suffering worldwide. There is great research potential in this domain and it is also necessary. The main objective of this study was to identify potential inhibitors against acid sphingomyelinase (ASM) in order to prevent coronavirus infection. Experimental studies revealed that SARS-CoV-2 causes activation of the acid sphingomyelinase/ceramide pathway, which in turn facilitates the viral entry into the cells. The objective was to inhibit acid sphingomyelinase activity in order to prevent the cells from SARS-CoV-2 infection. Previous studies have reported functional inhibitors against ASM (FIASMAs). These inhibitors can be exploited to block the entry of SARS-CoV-2 into the cells. To achieve our objective, a drug library containing 257 functional inhibitors of ASM was constructed. Computational molecular docking was applied to dock the library against the target protein (PDB: 5I81). The potential binding site of the target protein was identified through structural alignment with the known binding pocket of a protein with a similar function. AutoDock Vina was used to carry out the docking steps. The docking results were analyzed and the inhibitors were screened based on their binding affinity scores and ADME properties. Among the 257 functional inhibitors, Dutasteride, Cepharanthine, and Zafirlukast presented the lowest binding affinity scores of -9.7, -9.6, and -9.5 kcal/mol, respectively. Furthermore, computational ADME analysis of these results revealed Cepharanthine and Zafirlukast to have non-toxic properties. To further validate these findings, the top two inhibitors in complex with the target protein were subjected to molecular dynamic simulations at 100 ns. The molecular interactions and stability of these compounds revealed that these inhibitors could be a promising tool for inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 infection.", 
    "abstract": "In the current energy and environmental framework, the environmental impact of the road transport sector and the urban waste management and disposal are extremely important for highly crowded cities. This work assesses the energy, economic and environmental performance of an innovative paradigm for the full decarbonisation of the road transport sector. This problem is integrated with the management of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste. In particular, the proposed technology is based on an anaerobic digestion plant coupled with a biogas upgrading unit, for the production of biomethane. In addition, photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors are also considered for matching electrical and thermal demands, in order to achieve a fully-renewable system. To this scope, the system also includes suitable thermal and electric storages. The economic analysis also considers specific public funding policies, currently available for this technology. This system aims to be a novel paradigm in the energy scenario of waste disposal and road transport sector refurbishment. TRNSYS software was adopted to perform an accurate dynamic simulation for a one-year operation of the system. The anaerobic digestion model is developed by the authors in MatLab and integrated in TRNSYS, for dynamic simulation purpose. Results show that the plant is almost self-sufficient due to the integration of storage systems for both the thermal and electric energy. The photovoltaic system is able to reduce by 45% the energy dependence from the grid. Energy and environmental analyses show a Primary Energy Saving of 126% and a reduction of CO", 
    "abstract": "Triclocarban (TCC) has been used in consumer products and is a widespread contaminant in municipal wastewater treatment systems that ultimately accumulates in natural receiving water and soil. This work aims to apply an innovative hybrid moving entrapped bead activated sludge reactor (named \"HyMER\") that integrates entrapped TCC-degrading microbes and freely suspended activated sludge to treat TCC-contaminated wastewater. A previously isolated TCC-degrading bacterium (Pseudomonas fluorescens strain MC46, called MC46) and barium alginate entrapment were applied. The synthetic TCC-contaminated wastewater treatment (with TCC concentration of 10\u00a0mg/L) was performed using 20-cycle fed-batch reactor operation with feeding times of 12 and 24\u00a0h and cycle times of 13 and 25\u00a0h. The results indicated that the HyMER effectively reduced chemical oxygen demand by up to 80 and 95\u00a0% and TCC by up to 53 and 83\u00a0%, respectively, with feeding times of 12 and 24\u00a0h. Three TCC degradation intermediate products were found-3,4-dichloroaniline, 4-chloroaniline, and aniline. Scanning electron microscopic analysis revealed shorter cells and bacterial appendage development as cell adaptations against TCC and its intermediates. The live/dead assay indicated high survival of entrapped MC46 in toxic conditions, with up to 84\u00a0% viable cells. Based on computational fluid dynamic analysis, no entrapped cell agglomeration showed in the reactor, indicating the potential application of HyMER for real wastewater treatment. These results exhibit the feasibility of HyMER and its applicability for future toxic wastewater treatment.", 
    "abstract": "The ability of the cyclodextrin-oxime construct 6-OxP-CD to bind and degrade the nerve agents Cyclosarin (GF), Soman (GD) and S-[2-[Di(propan-2-yl)amino]ethyl] O-ethyl methylphosphonothioate (VX) has been studied using 31P-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) under physiological conditions. While 6-OxP-CD was found to degrade GF instantaneously under these conditions, it was found to form an inclusion complex with GD and significantly improve its degradation (t1/2 ~ 2 hrs) relative over background (t1/2 ~ 22 hrs). Consequently, effective formation of the 6-OxP-CD:GD inclusion complex results in the immediate neutralization of GD and thus preventing it from inhibiting its biological target. In contrast, NMR experiments did not find evidence for an inclusion complex between 6-OxP-CD and VX, and the agent's degradation profile was identical to that of background degradation (t1/2 ~ 24 hrs). As a complement to this experimental work, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations coupled with Molecular Mechanics-Generalized Born Surface Area (MM-GBSA) calculations have been applied to the study of inclusion complexes between 6-OxP-CD and the three nerve agents. These studies provide data that informs the understanding of the different degradative interactions exhibited by 6-OxP-CD with each nerve agent as it is introduced in the CD cavity in two different orientations (up and down). For its complex with GF, it was found that the oxime in 6-OxP-CD lies in very close proximity (PGF\u22efOOxime ~ 4-5 \u00c5) to the phosphorus center of GF in the 'downGF' orientation for most of the simulation accurately describing the ability of 6-OxP-CD to degrade this nerve agent rapidly and efficiently. Further computational studies involving the center of masses (COMs) for both components (GF and 6-OxP-CD) also provided some insight on the nature of this inclusion complex. Distances between the COMs (\u0394COM) lie closer in space in the 'downGF' orientation than in the 'upGF' orientation; a correlation that seems to hold true not only for GF but also for its congener, GD. In the case of GD, calculations for the 'downGD' orientation showed that the oxime functional group in 6-OxP-CD although lying in close proximity (PGD\u22efOOxime ~ 4-5 \u00c5) to the phosphorus center of the nerve agent for most of the simulation, adopts another stable conformation that increase this distance to ~ 12-14 \u00c5, thus explaining the ability of 6-OxP-CD to bind and degrade GD but with less efficiency as observed experimentally (t1/2 ~ 4 hr. vs. immediate). Lastly, studies on the VX:6-OxP-CD system demonstrated that VX does not form a stable inclusion complex with the oxime-bearing cyclodextrin and as such does not interact in a way that is conducive to an accelerated degradation scenario. Collectively, these studies serve as a basic platform from which the development of new cyclodextrin scaffolds based on 6-OxP-CD can be designed in the development of medical countermeasures against these highly toxic chemical warfare agents.", 
    "abstract": "The novel coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2, is a global health pandemic beginning in early December 2019 in Wuhan, Hubei province, China. The effective drug target among coronaviruses is the SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro), because of its crucial role in processing viral polyproteins translated from the viral RNA. In this study, the bioactivity of the selected thiol drug named Bucillamine (BUC) was evaluated as a potential drug for COVID-19 treatment by using computational modeling strategies. First, the molecular electrostatic potential density (ESP) calculation was performed to estimate the chemically active atoms of BUC. Additionally, BUC was docked to the Mpro (PDB: 6LU7) to evaluate the protein-ligand binding affinities. Besides, the estimated ESP results by density functional theory (DFT) were used to illustrate the molecular docking findings. Moreover, the frontier orbitals analysis was calculated to determine the charge transfer between the Mpro and BUC. Then, the stability of protein-ligand complex was subjected to the molecular dynamic simulations. Finally, an ", 
    "abstract": "The World Health Organization (WHO) proclaimed the monkeypox epidemic a \"public health emergency of worldwide significance\" recently. The monkeypox virus is a member of the same Orthopoxvirus genus as the smallpox virus. Although smallpox medications are advised against monkeypox, no monkeypox-specific drugs are currently available. In the event of such an outbreak, in-silico medication identification is a practical and efficient strategy. As a result, we report a computational drug repurposing analysis to discover medicines that may be potential inhibitors of thymidylate kinase, a critical monkeypox viral enzyme. The target protein structure of the monkeypox virus was modeled using the vaccinia virus's homologous protein structure. Using molecular docking and density functional theory, we found 11 possible inhibitors of the monkeypox virus from an Asinex library of 261120 chemicals. The primary purpose of this in silico work is to find possible inhibitors of monkeypox viral proteins that can then be experimentally tested in order to develop innovative therapeutic medicines for monkeypox infection.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Selective photosensitized oxidation of amyloid protein aggregates is being investigated as a possible therapeutic strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). Photo-oxidation has been shown to degrade amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) aggregates and ameliorate aggregate toxicity in vitro and reduce aggregate levels in the brains of AD animal models. To shed light on the mechanism by which photo-oxidation induces fibril destabilization, we carried out an all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulation to examine the effect of methionine (Met35) oxidation on the conformation and stability of a \u03b2-sheet-rich A\u03b2", 
    "abstract": "Hydrogen as clean energy can effectively solve the problems of fossil energy shortage and environmental pollution. However, traditional methods of H", 
    "abstract": "Multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (MDRAb), a priority-I pathogen declared by the World Health Organization, became a potential healthcare concern worldwide with a high mortality rate. Thus, the identification of putative molecular targets and potential lead molecules is an important concern in healthcare. The present study aimed to screen a prospective molecular target and effectual binders for the drug discovery of MDRAb by computational virtual screening approach. Based on the functional role, \u03b3-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase (CMD) was prioritized as the target and its three-dimensional (3D) structure was computationally modeled. Based on the availability of the 3D structure, twenty-five herbal molecules were selected by database search, and their drug-likeliness, pharmacokinetic, and toxicity features were predicted. The effectual binding of the selected molecules towards CMD was predicted by molecular docking. The stability of the best-docked complexes was predicted by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation for 100 ns and binding energy calculations were carried out by molecular mechanics generalized Born and surface area solvation (MM/GBSA) method. Out of twenty-five molecules screened, hirsutine (an indole alkaloid of Uncaria rhynchophylla) and thymoquinone (a phytochemical of Nigella sativa) were qualified for drug likeliness, pharmacokinetic, and toxicity features and demonstrated significant effectual binding to CMD when compared with the binding of co-crystallized inhibitor and CMD (control). The docked complexes of hirsutine and thymoquinone, and CMD were stabilized by the binding energies of -8. 30 and -8. 46\u00a0kcal/mol respectively. These molecules were qualified in terms of ideal drug likeliness, ADME, and toxicity properties. MD simulation studies showed that the ligand-protein complexes were stable throughout the simulation. The binding free energies of the complexes by MMGBSA were estimated to be -42.08157745\u00a0kcal/mol and -36.58618242\u00a0kcal/mol for hirsutine and thymoquinone respectively when compared with the calculated binding free energy of the control (-28.75032666\u00a0kcal/mol). This study concluded that hirsutine and thymoquinone can act as potential lead molecules against CMD and the present hypothesis can be scaled up to develop potential inhibitors against MDRAb.", 
    "abstract": "Apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1), is the important component of high-density lipoproteins (HDL), that has key role in HDL biogenesis, cholesterol trafficking, and reverse cholesterol transport (RCT). Non-synonymous Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in ApoA1 have been linked to cardiovascular diseases and amyloidosis as they alter the protein's native structure and function. Therefore in this study, we attempted to understand the molecular pathogenicity profile of nsSNPs of ApoA1 using various computational approaches. We used state-of-the-art computational methods to thoroughly investigate the 295 ApoA1 nsSNPs at sequence and structural levels. Seven nsSNPs (L13R, L84R, L84P, L99P, R173P, L187P, and L238P) out of 295 were classified as the most deleterious and destabilizing. In order to estimate the effect of such destabilizing mutations on the protein conformation, all-atom molecular dynamics simulations (MDS) of ApoA1 wild-type (WT), L99P and R173P for 100\u2009ns, was carried out using GROMACS 5.0.1 package. The MD simulation investigation revealed significant structural alterations in L99P and R173P. In addition, they had changed principal component analysis and electrostatic surface potential, decreased structural compactness, and intramolecular hydrogen bonds, which supported the rationale underpinning ApoA1 dysfunction with such mutations. This work sheds light on ApoA1 dysfunction due to single amino acid alterations, and offers new insight into the molecular basis of ApoA1-related diseases progression.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "In order to predict how mAbs partition in 20% ethylene oxide/80% propylene oxide (v/v) random copolymer (EO", 
    "abstract": "The two types of bladder cancer, muscle invasive and non-muscle invasive (NMIBC), are among the most prevalent cancers worldwide. Despite this, even though muscle-invasive bladder cancer is more deadly, NMIBC requires more therapy due to a greater recurrence rate and more extended and expensive care. Immunotherapy, intravesical chemotherapy, cystoscopy, and transurethral resection (TUR) are among the treatments available. Crude scorpion venomand purified proteins and peptides, can suppress cancer metastasis in an ", 
    "abstract": "Mucosal drug delivery plays an increasing role in the clinical setting owing to mucin's advantageous biochemical and pharmacological properties. However, how this transport system recognizes different substrates remains unclear. In this study, we explore the mechanism of bioactive (quercetin and berberine) promiscuity of mucin using various spectroscopic techniques and molecular dynamics simulations. The UV-visible spectroscopy results and the decreased fluorescence intensity of mucin in the presence of the bioactive compounds via a static quenching mechanism confirmed ground-state complex formation between the bioactives and mucin. The binding constants (", 
    "abstract": "Due to its relatively high inertness, nitrogen dissociation at ambient temperature and pressure has always been a challenging task. Plasmon driven photocatalysis has proved to be an effective method. Owing to their unique physical, chemical, and electronic properties, two-dimensional planar materials have become the most promising candidates to replace noble metal catalytic nitrogen reduction. In this study, real-time dynamics of N", 
    "abstract": "Natural rubber (NR) exhibits good elasticity, flexural resistance, wear resistance, and excellent mechanical properties, and it has been widely used in aerospace, transportation, medical, and health fields. For NR, however, the resistance to thermal-oxidation and ozone aging is fairly poor. Although aging properties of NR can be significantly improved with the incorporation of chloroprene rubber (CR) according to some references, the miscibility between NR and CR, the morphologies of the binary blends, and so on are revealed ambiguously. In this work, molecular dynamics simulation (MD) and dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) simulation were carried out to predict the compatibility between natural rubber and chloroprene rubber in view of Flory-Huggins parameters. The morphologies of the blends were obtained with the use of the DPD method. The simulation results were furtherly examined by means of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA). It was found that the miscibility between NR and CR is poor. Nevertheless, the miscibility could be improved when the content of CR is 50% or 90%. In addition, spinodal decomposition with a critical temperature of 390 K would take place according to the phase diagram. Microphase structure such as spherical, lamellar, and bicontinuous phases can be found with different contents of CR in the blends with the results of morphologies analysis.", 
    "abstract": "Malaria is a major global health issue due to the emergence of resistance to most of the available antimalarial drugs. There is an urgent need to discover new antimalarials to tackle the resistance issue. The present study aims to explore the antimalarial potential of chemical constituents reported from Cissampelos pareira L., a medicinal plant traditionally known for treating malaria. Phytochemically, benzylisoquinolines and bisbenzylisoquinolines are the major classes of alkaloids reported from this plant. In silico molecular docking revealed prominent interactions of bisbenzylisoquinolines such as hayatinine and curine with Pfdihydrofolate reductase (-6.983 Kcal/mol and -6.237 Kcal/mol), PfcGMP-dependent protein kinase (-6.652 Kcal/mol and -7.158 Kcal/mol), and Pfprolyl-tRNA synthetase (-7.569 Kcal/mol and -7.122 Kcal/mol). The binding affinity of hayatinine and curine with identified antimalarial targets was further evaluated using MD-simulation analysis. Among the identified antimalarial targets, the RMSD, RMSF, the radius of gyration, and PCA indicated the formation of stable complexes of hayatinine and curine with Pfprolyl-tRNA synthetase. The outcomes of in silico investigation putatively suggested that bisbenzylisoquinolines may act on the translation of the Plasmodium parasite to exhibit antimalarial potency.", 
    "abstract": "An increase in the occurrence of fungal infections throughout the world, as well as the rise of novel fungal strains and antifungal resistance to commercially available drugs, suggests that new therapeutic choices for fungal infections are needed. The purpose of this research was to find new antifungal candidates or leads of secondary metabolites derived from natural sources that could effectively inhibit the enzymatic activity of Candida albicans lanosterol 14-alpha demethylase (CYP51) while also having good pharmacokinetics. In silico prediction of the drug-likeness, chemo-informatics and enzyme inhibition indicate that the 46 compounds derived from fungi, sponges, plants, bacteria and algae sources have a high novelty to meet all five requirements of Lipinski's rules and impede enzymatic function. Among the 15 candidate molecules with strong binding affinity to CYP51 investigated by molecular docking simulation, didymellamide A-E compounds demonstrated the strongest binding energy against the target protein at -11.14, -11.46, -11.98, -11.98, and -11.50\u00a0kcal/mol, respectively. Didymellamide molecules bind to comparable active pocket sites of antifungal ketoconazole and itraconazole medicines by hydrogen bonds forming to Tyr132, Ser378, Met508, His377 and Ser507, and hydrophobic interactions with HEM601 molecule. The stability of the CYP51-ligand complexes was further investigated using molecular dynamics simulations that took into account different geometric features and computed binding free energy. Using the pkCSM ADMET descriptors tool, several pharmacokinetic characteristics and the toxicity of candidate compounds were assessed. The findings of this study revealed that didymellamides could be a promising inhibitor against these CYP51 protein. However, there is still a need for further in vivo and in vitro studies to support these findings.", 
    "abstract": "To overcome the hypoxia barrier in tumor therapy, a hypoxia-activated prodrug of docetaxel (DTX-PNB) was synthesized and self-assembled with indocyanine green (ICG), forming a combination nanomedicine ISDNN. With the guidance of molecular dynamic simulation, the ISDNN construction could be accurately controlled, achieving uniform size distribution and high drug loading up to 90%. Within the hypoxic tumor environment, ISDNN exerted ICG-mediated photodynamic therapy and aggravated hypoxia to boost DTX-PNB activation for chemotherapy, enabling enhanced antitumor efficacy.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Shikonin, a phytochemical present in the roots of ", 
    "abstract": "We have synthesized the pyrazole-bearing Schiff base derivatives (", 
    "abstract": "Many biological activities of pyridine and thiazole derivatives have been reported, including antiviral activity and, more recently, as COVID-19 inhibitors. Thus, in this paper, we designed, synthesized, and characterized a novel series of ", 
    "abstract": "Base mutations increase the contagiousness and transmissibility of the Delta and Lambda strains and lead to the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are frequently used for drug discovery and relocation. Small molecular compounds from Chinese herbs have an inhibitory effect on the virus. Therefore, this study used computational simulations to investigate the effects of small molecular compounds on the spike (S) protein and the binding between them and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptors.\nIn this study, molecular docking, MD simulation, and protein-protein analysis were used to explore the medicinal target inhibition of Chinese herbal medicinal plant chemicals on SARS-CoV-2. 12,978 phytochemicals were screened against S proteins of SARS-CoV-2 Lambda and Delta mutants.\nMolecular docking showed that 65.61% and 65.28% of the compounds had the relatively stable binding ability to the S protein of Lambda and Delta mutants (docking score\u2009\u2264\u2009-6). The top five compounds with binding energy with Lambda and Delta mutants were clematichinenoside AR2 (-9.7), atratoglaucoside,b (-9.5), physalin b (-9.5), atratoglaucoside, a (-9.4), Ochnaflavone (-9.3) and neo-przewaquinone a (-10), Wikstrosin (-9.7), xilingsaponin A (-9.6), ardisianoside G (-9.6), and 23-epi-26-deoxyactein (-9.6), respectively. Four compounds (Casuarictin, Heterophylliin D, Protohypericin, and Glansrin B) could interact with S protein mutation sites of Lambda and Delta mutants, respectively, and MD simulation results showed that four plant chemicals and spike protein have good energy stable complex formation ability. In addition, protein-protein docking was carried out to evaluate the changes in ACE2 binding ability caused by the formation of four plant chemicals and S protein complexes. The analysis showed that the binding of four plant chemicals to the S protein could reduce the stability of the binding to ACE2, thereby reducing the replication ability of the virus.\nTo sum up, the study concluded that four phytochemicals (Casuarictin, Heterophylliin D, Protohypericin, and Glansrin B) had significant effects on the binding sites of the SARS-CoV-2\u2009S protein. This study needs further ", 
    "abstract": "ECEL1 has been presented as a causal gene of an autosomal recessive form distal arthrogryposis (DA) which affects the distal joints. The present study focused on bioinformatic analysis of a novel mutation in ECEL1, c.535A>G (p. Lys179Glu), which was reported in a family with 2 affected boys and fetus through prenatal diagnosis.\nWhole-exome sequencing data analyzed followed by molecular dynamic (MD) simulation of native ECEL1 protein and mutant structures using GROMACS software. One variant c.535A>G, p. Lys179Glu (homozygous) on gene ECEL1 has been detected in proband which was validated in all family members through Sanger sequencing.\nWe demonstrated remarkable constructional differences by MD simulation between wild-type and novel mutant of ECEL1 gene. The reason for the lack of the Zn ion binding in mutation in the ECEL1 protein has been identified by average atomic distance and SMD analysis among the wild-type and mutant.\nOverall, in this study, we present knowledge of the effect of the studied variant on the ECEL1 protein leading to neurodegenerative disorder in humans. This work may hopefully be supplementary to classical molecular dynamics to dissolve the mutational effects of cofactor-dependent protein.", 
    "abstract": "Usnic acid (UA) lately piqued the interest of researchers for its extraordinary biological characteristics, including anticancer activity. Here, the mechanism was clarified through network pharmacology,molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation. Sixteen proteins were selected through network pharmacology study as they are probable to interact with UA. Out of these proteins, 13 were filtered from PPI network analysis based on their significance of interactions (", 
    "abstract": "Interactions between cations and extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) play an important role in the formation of microbial aggregates and have key effects on the physical properties of activated sludge across wastewater and sludge treatment process. Here, a molecular model of EPS cluster in activated sludge was constructed and simulated by molecular dynamics (MD) to probe the structural properties of EPS and the interaction between EPS and prevalent multivalent cations (Ca", 
    "abstract": "A novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has caused a worldwide pandemic and remained a severe threat to the entire human population. Researchers worldwide are struggling to find an effective drug treatment to combat this deadly disease. Many FDA-approved drugs from varying inhibitory classes and plant-derived compounds are screened to combat this virus. Still, due to the lack of structural information and several mutations of this virus, initial drug discovery efforts have limited success. A high-resolution crystal structure of important proteins like the main protease (3CLpro) that are required for SARS-CoV-2 viral replication and polymerase (RdRp) and papain-like protease (PLpro) as a vital target in other coronaviruses still presents important targets for the drug discovery. With this knowledge, scaffold library of Interbioscreen (IBS) database was explored through molecular docking, MD simulation and postdynamic binding free energy studies. The 3D docking structures and simulation data for the IBS compounds was studied and articulated. The compounds were further evaluated for ADMET studies using QikProp and SwissADME tools. The results revealed that the natural compounds STOCK2N-00385, STOCK2N-00244, and STOCK2N-00331 interacted strongly with 3CLpro, PLpro, and RdRp, respectively, and ADMET data was also observed in the range of limits for almost all the compounds with few exceptions. Thus, it suggests that these compounds may be potential inhibitors of selected target proteins, or their structural scaffolds can be further optimized to obtain effective drug candidates for SARS-CoV-2. The findings of ", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to identify donkey-hide gelatin-derived immunomodulatory peptides targeting Toll-like receptor 4-myeloid differentiation 2 (TLR4-MD2) and elucidate their binding modes using physicochemical property prediction, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and ", 
    "abstract": "Aptamers are a class of single-stranded (ss) nucleic acid molecules generated through Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment (SELEX) that involves iterations of time-consuming and tedious selection, amplification, and enrichment steps. To compensate for the drawbacks of conventional SELEX, we have devised an in-silico methodology that facilitates a cost-effective and facile manner of aptamer selection. Here, we report the isolation of DNA aptamers against androgen receptors (ARs) using androgen response elements (ARE) that possess natural affinity toward AR. A virtual library of ARE sequences was prepared and subjected to a stringent selection criterion to generate a sequence pool having stable hairpin conformations\u00a0and\u00a0high\u00a0GC\u00a0content. The 3D-structures of the selected ss AREs were modeled and screened through rigid docking and molecular dynamic (MD) simulation to examine their potency as potential AR binders. The predicted sequences were further validated using direct enzyme-linked aptasorbent assay (ELASA),\u00a0which\u00a0includes\u00a0the\u00a0measurement\u00a0of\u00a0their binding affinity, specificity, and target discrimination properties under complex biological enviroments. A short, 15 nucleotides (nts), ssDNA aptamer,\u00a0termed\u00a0ARapt1\u00a0with\u00a0the\u00a0estimated\u00a0Kd\u00a0value\u00a0of\u00a05.5\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03\u00a0nm, was chosen as the most\u00a0prominent aptamer against AR based on the coherence of both the in-silico and in-vitro evaluation results. The high target-binding affinity and selectivity of ARapt1 signify its potential use as a versatile tool in diagnostic applications relevant to prostate cancer and related diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Suppressor of gamma response 1 (SOG1) is a member of the NAC domain family transcription factors of the DNA damage response (DDR) signaling in the plant's genome. SOG1 is directly involved in transcriptional response to DNA damage, cell cycle checkpoints and ATR or ATM-mediated activation of the DNA damage responses and repair functioning in programmed cell death and regulation of end reduplication. Different mutations in the SOG1 protein lead to severe diseases and, ultimately, cell death. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are an important type of genetic alteration that cause different diseases or programmed cell death. The current study applied different computational approaches to ", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "A class of 2-(1", 
    "abstract": "Overexpression of polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) has been found in many different types of cancers. With its essential role in cell proliferation, PLK1 has been determined to be a broad-spectrum anti-cancer target. In this study, 3D-QSAR, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were applied on a series of novel pteridinone derivatives as PLK1 inhibitors to discover anti-cancer drug candidates. In this work, three models\u2014CoMFA (Q\u00b2 = 0.67, R\u00b2 = 0.992), CoMSIA/SHE (Q\u00b2 = 0.69, R\u00b2 = 0.974), and CoMSIA/SEAH (Q\u00b2 = 0.66, R\u00b2 = 0.975)\u2014of pteridinone derivatives were established. The three models that were established gave Rpred2 = 0.683, Rpred 2= 0.758, and Rpred 2= 0.767, respectively. Thus, the predictive abilities of the three proposed models were successfully evaluated. The relations between the different champs and activities were well-demonstrated by the contour chart of the CoMFA and CoMSIA/SEAH models. The results of molecular docking indicated that residues R136, R57, Y133, L69, L82, and Y139 were the active sites of the PLK1 protein (PDB code: 2RKU), in which the more active ligands can inhibit the enzyme of PLK1. The results of the molecular dynamic MD simulation diagram were obtained to reinforce the previous molecular docking results, which showed that both inhibitors remained stable in the active sites of the PLK1 protein (PDB code: 2RKU) for 50 ns. Finally, a check of the ADME-Tox properties of the two most active molecules showed that molecular N\u00b0 28 could represent a good drug candidate for the therapy of prostate cancer diseases.", 
    "abstract": "The global data revealed that myocardial infarction (MI) in coronary heart disease has been the leading cause of mortality worldwide in both developing and developed countries. The remodeling process after MI is essential to be the leading cause of heart failure due to cardiac remodeling. The evidence showed the increment of MMP-9, NOX2 and TGF-\u03b21 expressions are biomarkers that influence cardiac remodeling. Lately, colchicine is widely used in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. The effects of colchicine on NOX2, MMP-9 and TGF-\u03b21 in the molecular models are still not yet discussed. We proposed a molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation study to show the interaction between colchicine, NOX2, MMP-9 and TGF-\u03b21. Colchicine has a good binding affinity with MMP-9, NOX2 and TGF-\u03b21 based on the value, which are -8.3\u2009Kcal/mol, -6.7\u2009Kcal/mol and -6.5\u2009Kcal/mol, respectively. Colchicine also binds to some catalytic residues in MMP-9, NOX2 and TGF-\u03b21 that are responsible for inhibitor effects. The RMSD values between colchicine and MMP-9, NOX2 and TGF-\u03b21 are 2.4\u2009\u00c5, 2\u2009\u00c5 and 2.1\u2009\u00c5, respectively. The RMSF values of ligand and receptors complex showed relatively similar fluctuations. The SASA analysis showed that colchicine could create a more stable interaction with MMP-9. PCA analysis revealed that colchicine is capable of creating a solid and stable interaction with MMP-9 mainly, also NOX2 and TGF-\u03b21. In conclusion, docking and molecular dynamics analysis showed evidence of colchicine roles in the inhibition of MMP-9, NOX2 and TGF-\u03b21 in order to inhibit the remodeling process after MI.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "The study aimed to screen prospective molecular targets of BCC and potential natural lead candidates as effective binders by computational modeling, molecular docking, and dynamic (MD) simulation studies. Based on the virulent functions, tRNA 5-methylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine biosynthesis bifunctional protein (mnmC) and pyrimidine/purine nucleoside phosphorylase (ppnP) were selected as the prospective molecular targets. In the absence of experimental data, the three-dimensional (3D) structures of these targets were computationally predicted. After a thorough literature survey and database search, the drug-likeness, and pharmacokinetic properties of 70 natural molecules were computationally predicted and the effectual binding of the best lead molecules against both the targets was predicted by molecular docking. The stabilities of the best-docked complexes were validated by MD simulation and the binding energy calculations were carried out by MM-GBSA approaches. The present study revealed that the hypothetical models of mnmC and ppnP showed stereochemical accuracy. The study also showed that among 70 natural compounds subjected to computational screening, Honokiol (3',5-Di(prop-2-en-1-yl) [1,1'-biphenyl]-2,4'-diol) present in Magnolia showed ideal drug-likeness, pharmacokinetic features and showed effectual binding with mnmC and ppnP (binding energies -7.3\u00a0kcal/mol and -6.6\u00a0kcal/mol, respectively). The MD simulation and GBSA calculation studies showed that the ligand-protein complexes stabilized throughout tMD simulation. The present study suggests that Honokiol can be used as a potential lead molecule against mnmC and ppnP targets of BCC and this study provides insight into further experimental validation for alternative lead development against drug resistant BCC.", 
    "abstract": "To identify potent urease inhibitors, in the current study, a series of thioxothiazolidinyl-acetamides were designed and synthesized. The prepared compounds were characterized by spectroscopic techniques, including FTIR, ", 
    "abstract": "PTEN, a dual-phosphatase and scaffold protein, is one of the most commonly mutated tumour suppressor gene across various cancer types in human. The aim of this study therefore was to investigate the stability, structural and functional effects, and pathogenicity of 12 missense ", 
    "abstract": "Opioids are a class of chemicals, naturally occurring in the opium poppy plant, and act on the brain to cause a range of impacts, notably analgesic and anti-inflammatory actions. Moreover, an overview was taken in consideration for SARS-CoV-2 incidence and complications, as well as the medicinal uses of opioids were discussed being a safe analgesic and anti-inflammatory drug in a specific dose. Also, our article focused on utilization of opioids in the medication of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, the major objective of this study was to investigate the antiviral effect of opioids throughout an in silico study by molecular docking study to fifteen opioid compounds against SARS-CoV-2 main protease (PDB ID 6LU7, M", 
    "abstract": "The dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) inhibitory activity of Khaya senegalensis extracts was evaluated. The DPP-IV from a rat kidney was purified to a purification fold of 2.3. Among extracts from K.\u2005senegalensis, the hexane extract had the best DPP-IV inhibitory activity, with IC", 
    "abstract": "Flucytosine (5-fluorocytosine), a fluorine derivative of pyrimidine, has been studied both experimentally and quantum chemically. To obtain the optimized structure, vibrational frequencies and other various parameters, the B3LYP method with a 6-311++G(d,p) basis set was used. Atom-in-molecule theory was used to calculate the binding energies, ellipticity and isosurface projection by electron localization of the molecule (AIM). In addition, the computational results from IR and Raman were compared with the experimental spectra. NBO analysis was used to analyze the donor and acceptor interactions. To know the reactive region of the molecule, the molecular electrostatic potential (MEP) and Fukui functions were determined. The UV-Vis spectrum calculated by the TD-DFT/PCM method was also compared with the experimentally determined spectrum. The HOMO-LUMO energy outcomes proved that there was a good charge exchange occurring within the molecule. With DMSO and MeOH as the solvents, maps of the hole and electron density distribution (EDD and HDD) were produced in an excited state. An electrophilicity index parameter was looked at to theoretically test the bioactivity of the compound. To find the best ligand-protein interactions, molecular docking was also carried out with various receptor proteins. In order to verify the inhibitory potency for the receptor protein complex predicted by docking and molecular dynamic simulation studies, the binding free energy of the receptor protein complex was calculated. Using the MM/GBSA technique, we determined the docked complex's binding free energy. To confirm the molecule's drug similarity, a biological drug similarity investigation was also executed.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "This paper aims to study the penetration effect of harpoons on space debris to ensure the sustainable development of the space environment and solve the increasingly serious space debris problem. Firstly, a harpoon system was designed to capture space debris. Secondly, based on the Johnson-Cook dynamic constitutive model and fracture failure criterion, the finite element models of aluminum alloy plates were established. Then, the ballistic limit theory for the aluminum alloy target predicted the minimum launch velocity of the harpoon. Finally, the validation experiment was set up to verify the correctness of the model. The results show that the error between the simulation results of the speed for the harpoon embedded in the target and the theoretical results of the ballistic limit is 9.1%, which provides guidance for active space debris removal technology.", 
    "abstract": "Developing naturally active components to control \u03b1-amylase/\u03b1-glucosidase activity is highly desired for preventing and managing type 2 diabetes. Rapeseed oil is rich in active phenolic compounds and seed oil is a major source of liposoluble inhibitors to these enzymes. However, it remains unclear about the interaction of phenolic compounds in rapeseed oil with \u03b1-amylase/\u03b1-glucosidase. This study found that the important phenolic compounds from rapeseed oil (Sinapic acid, SA; canolol, CAO; canolol dimer, CAO dimer) possessed effective inhibition performance against \u03b1-amylase and \u03b1-glucosidase. CAO showed the lowest and highest inhibitory effect, respectively. In the kinetics studies, the inhibition mechanism of SA/CAO/CAO dimer against \u03b1-glucosidase was non-competitive, exhibiting a different way from \u03b1-amylase. Fluorescence quenching spectra implied that the static processes were responsible for the spontaneous binding between the compounds and enzymes. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) displayed these compounds-induced conformation alterations of \u03b1-amylase/\u03b1-glucosidase. Molecular docking revealed that SA/CAO/CAO dimer decreased the catalytic efficiency of \u03b1-amylase/\u03b1-glucosidase through hydrogen bonds, hydrophobic force, or \u03c0-\u03c0 interaction. Molecular dynamics matched well with the experimental and docking results regarding the inhibitory behaviors and interactions toward \u03b1-amylase/\u03b1-glucosidase. These results demonstrated the potential benefits of phenolic compounds from rapeseed oil in antidiabetic-related activities.", 
    "abstract": "The article has been withdrawn at the request of the author. Bentham Science apologizes to the readers of the journal for any inconvenience this may have caused. The Bentham Editorial Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at https://benthamscience.com/editorial-policies-main.php.\nIt is a condition of publication that manuscripts submitted to this journal have not been published and will not be simultaneously submitted or published elsewhere. Furthermore, any data, illustration, structure or table that has been published elsewhere must be reported, and copyright permission for reproduction must be obtained. Plagiarism is strictly forbidden, and by submitting the article for publication the authors agree that the publishers have the legal right to take appropriate action against the authors, if plagiarism or fabricated information is discovered. By submitting a manuscript, the authors agree that the copyright of their article is transferred to the publishers if and when the article is accepted for publication.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, two novel derivatives of naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid: 6-(((1S,5R)-3,5-dichloro-2,4,6-triazabicyclo [z3.1.0]hex-3-en-1-yl)amino)-5-((E)-phenyldiazenyl)naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid (DTPS1) and (E)-6-((4,6-dichloro-1,3,5-triazine2-yl)amino)-4-hydroxy-3-(phenyldiazenyl)naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid (DTPS2) have been synthesized and characterized using FT-IR, UV-vis, and NMR spectroscopic techniques. Applying density functional theory (DFT) at the B3LYP, APFD, PBEPBE, HCTH, TPSSTPSS, and \u03c9B97XD/aug-cc-pVDZ level of theories for the electronic structural properties. In-vitro analysis, molecular docking, molecular dynamic (MD) simulation of the compounds was conducted to investigate the anti-inflammatory potential using COXs enzymes. Docking indicates binding affinity of -9.57, -9.60, -6.77 and -7.37\u2009kcal/mol for DTPS1, DTPS2, Ibuprofen and Diclofenac which agrees with ", 
    "abstract": "Mucormycosis is an infection caused by fungi belonging to the order Mucorales. Rhizopus oryzae is one of the most prevalent organisms identified in mucormycosis patients. Because it spreads quickly through the blood vessels, this opportunistic illness has an exceptionally high fatality rate, even when vigorous treatment is administered. Nonetheless, it has a high tolerance to antifungal medicines, limiting treatment options. As a result, improved methods for preventing and treating mucormycosis are desperately needed. Hence, this study was aimed at assessing the effect of lupeol, quercetin, and solasodine against mucormycosis based on computational approaches.\nThe Rhizopus oryzae RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) was the target for the design of drugs against the deadly mucormycosis. The three-dimensional structure of the RdRp was modelled with a Swiss model and validated using PROCHECK, VERIFY 3D, and QMEAN. Using the Schrodinger maestro module, a molecular docking study was performed between RdRp and the antimicrobial phytochemicals lupeol, quercetin, and solasodine. A molecular dynamics (MD) simulation study was used to assess the stability and interaction of the RdRp with these phytochemicals.\nThe RdRp protein binds strongly to lupeol (-7.2\u00a0kcal/mol), quercetin (-9.1\u00a0kcal/mol), and solasodine (-9.6\u00a0kcal/mol), according to molecular docking assessment based on the lowest binding energy, confirmation, and bond interaction. Simulations suggest that lupeol, quercetin, and solasodine complexes with RdRp and showed stable confirmation with minimal fluctuation throughout the 200 nanoseconds based on the RMSD and RMSF trajectory assessments.\nThe molecular docking and MD simulation investigation improved our understanding of phytochemical-RdRp interactions. Due to its high affinity for RdRp, solasodine may be a better treatment option for mucormycosis.", 
    "abstract": "Thyroid cancer is a predominant form of endocrine malignancy, which destabilizes the metabolic rate of the body. The rapid increase in the incidence rate of thyroid cancer in recent years has aroused great concern to be investigated and diagnosed at an early stage. This study aimed to analyze the pathogenic mutations in thyroid cancer to identify their potential inhibitors for therapeutic targets. RAS genes are the most common oncogenes, which encode proteins that play an essential role in cell signaling and have been frequently mutated in different cancer types. The mutation in these genes causes abnormal cell growth and fails to respond to death signals. In this study, we identified the most significant mutations in the RAS genes; thus, the highly pathogenic mutations were curated from thyroid cancer patients and analyzed for their pathogenicity effect. The physicochemical analysis predicted mutation in wild-type KRAS protein had adapted negative charge on single base substitution of G12D that may easily cause loss of interactions and result in critical differences in the structure and function of the protein. Furthermore, the native KRAS protein was mutated and screened against a library of druggable compounds from the ZINC drug repository. The molecular docking analysis revealed that G12D mutant KRAS protein form best-docked complex with Naldemedine with the highest binding affinity. The dynamic simulation results further justified the stability of Naldemedine as a potential inhibitor with high efficiency in MMPBSA value of -45.4867\u00a0kcal/mol of being treated as a potential drug for papillary thyroid carcinoma. Further in vivo and in vitro validation of Naldemedine and its efficiency as a drug for the targeted pathogenic KRAS mutation is required.", 
    "abstract": "Aneurysms are associated with a mortality rate of 81% or more in cases of rupture. Intraluminal thrombus (ILT) is a common complication of aneurysms, it can greatly increase the risk of rupture. Especially for some of the more complex aneurysms, physicians need to consider the risk of thrombosis or progression and precisely formulate a treatment plan. Therefore, it is particularly important to assess the level of thrombosis risk through haemodynamics.\nTo analyse the haemodynamic indices and compare the thrombosis risk in a double false lumen abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm using computational fluid dynamics (CFD).\nComputer tomography angiography (CTA) imaging data were collected from a patient with a double false lumen abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm, and three different lesion morphology aneurysm models were established, double false lumen abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm, single false lumen abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm and saccular abdominal aortic aneurysm, in order to analyse the flow velocity, time-averaged shear stress (TAWSS), oscillatory shear index (OSI), relative residence time (RRT) of blood flow, and endothelial cell activation potential (ECAP).\nAll three aneurysms were in a low-flow state within the body, and the low-flow velocity flow in the proximal vessel wall extended to the right common iliac artery; the vortex intensity was more intense in the abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm than in the saccular abdominal aortic aneurysm. The risk area for thrombosis was concentrated in the expansion part of the aneurysm and the false lumen. The RRT and ECAP maxima of the double false lumen abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm were much greater than those of the single false lumen dissection aneurysm and saccular aortic aneurysm.\nLow-velocity blood flow, high OSI, low TAWSS, high RRT, and high ECAP regions correlate with the risk of thrombosis. The double false lumen type of abdominal aortic dissection aneurysm had some specificity in this case. The risk of thrombosis in the patient was extremely high, and the largest risk zone was within the smaller false lumen, which could be because the smaller false lumen was connected to the true lumen by only one breach. The results of the study provide some guidance in the early screening and development of treatment plans.", 
    "abstract": "Tripeptide NCW identified in ", 
    "abstract": "Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PHT1) treatment is mainly focused on inhibiting the enzyme glycolate oxidase, which plays a pivotal role in the production of glyoxylate, which undergoes oxidation to produce oxalate. When the renal secretion capacity exceeds, calcium oxalate forms stones that accumulate in the kidneys. In this respect, detailed QSAR analysis, molecular docking, and dynamics simulations of a series of inhibitors containing glycolic, glyoxylic, and salicylic acid groups have been performed employing different regression machine learning techniques. Three robust models with less than 9 descriptors-based on a tenfold cross (Q", 
    "abstract": "Lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis are common filarial diseases caused by filarial worms, which co-habit symbiotically with the \nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-022-00136-y.", 
    "abstract": "Methyl-Tert-Butyl Ether (MTBE) as a gasoline modifier is frequently added to fuels and used in plenty of worldwide applications. MTBE biodegradation in groundwater occurs slowly and produces water miscibility; therefore, it causes diverse environmental and human health concerns.\nThe interaction of MTBE with bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a model protein at physiological conditions is investigated to illustrate the possible interactions of MTBE with the body's proteins.\nUv-visible, fluorescence, circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy methods, and molecular modeling were used to analyze the MTBE's effect on BSA structure and dynamics. The constant protein concentration and various MTBE contents were used for possible interactions.\nThe protein structural analysis shows that MTBE binds to BSA via positive enthalpy and entropy via hydrophobic interactions. Molecular docking shows the participation of several amino acids in the MTBE-BSA interaction. The CD spectroscopy results show that the BSA structure was not changed in the MTBE concentrations utilized in the study. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation results suggest that MTBE can slightly change protein structure in the last 50ns.\nComparing experimental and MD simulation results demonstrated that the BSA secondary structure was maintained in the low concentration of the MTBE. The entropy and enthalpy parameters asserted the hydrophobic interaction was the major force in the interaction between the BSA and MTBE.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been associated with the hallmark features of cholinergic dysfunction, amyloid beta (A\u03b2) aggregation and impaired synaptic transmission, which makes the associated proteins, such as \u03b2-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE I), acetylcholine esterase (AChE) and synapsin I, II and III, major targets for therapeutic intervention. The present study investigated the therapeutic potential of three major phytochemicals of ", 
    "abstract": "The blast fungus ", 
    "abstract": "The discovery of a novel drug for ischemic stroke is plagued by expensive and unsuccessful outcomes. FDA-approved drugs could be a viable repurposing strategy for stroke therapy. Emerging evidence suggests the regulating role of Glutathione peroxidase (GPX4) in stroke and attracts as a potential target. To overcome limited therapeutic interventions, a drug repurposing ", 
    "abstract": "The spread of a new coronavirus infection in the last two years together with HIV infection preserves and even increases the potential for the spread of tuberculosis in the world. Sverdlovsk oblast (SO) of Russian Federation is the region with high levels of HIV and tuberculosis (TB). The search for new methods of forecasting of the future epidemic situation for tuberculosis has become particularly relevant. The aim was to develop an effective method for predicting the epidemic situation of tuberculosis using an artificial intelligence (AI) method in the format of a dynamic simulation model based on AI technologies. Statistical data was loaded from the state statistical reporting on TB patients for the period 2007-2017. The parameters were controlled through a system of inequalities. The proposed SDM made it possible to identify and reliably calculate trends of TB epidemiological indicators. Comparison of the predicted values made in 2017 with the actual values of 2018-2021 revealed a reliable coincidence of the trend of movement of TB epidemiological indicators in the region, the maximum deviation was no more than 14.82%. The forecast results obtained with SDM are quite suitable for practical use. Especially, in operational resource planning of measures to counteract the spread of tuberculosis at the regional level.", 
    "abstract": "Cucurbitacins are one of the most important components of Ecballium elaterium. Among the cucurbitacins, Cucurbitacin E was the first to be isolated. This study focused on screening the anticancer and insecticidal potential of Cucurbitacin E by the in-vitro, invivo, and in-silico methods.\nIn the study, toxicity analysis of Cucurbitacin E was determined on HeLa, Caco 2 cancer cell lines and D. melanogaster. While the expression levels of the BAD, BCL-2, AKT-1 and H-purine genes of cancer cell lines were determined, the CG15530, BUFFY, AKT-1 and Purine genes of D. melanogaster were determined by RT-PCR. Besides, molecular docking and dynamic properties of Cucurbitacin E with human and insectoid enzymes were presented in silico.\nThe IC\nAs a result of our in vivo, in vitro and bioinformatic analyzes, it has been seen that Cucurbitacin E is effective against the cancer types and model insects studied.", 
    "abstract": "We aim to screen out the active components that may have therapeutic effect on coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) from the severe and critical cases' prescriptions in the \"Coronavirus Disease 2019 Diagnosis and Treatment Plan (Trial Ninth Edition)\" issued by the National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China and explain its mechanism through the interactions with proteins. The ETCM database and SwissADME database were used to screen the active components contained in 25 traditional Chinese medicines in 3 prescriptions, and the PDB database was used to obtain the crystal structures of 4 proteins of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Molecular docking was performed using Autodock Vina and molecular dynamics simulations were performed using GROMACS. Binding energy results showed that 44 active ingredients including xambioona, gancaonin L, cynaroside, and baicalin showed good binding affinity with multiple targets of SARS-CoV-2, while molecular dynamics simulations analysis showed that xambioona bound more tightly to the nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV-2 and exerted a potent inhibitory effect. Modern technical methods are used to study the active components of traditional Chinese medicine and show that xambioona is an effective inhibitor of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein, which provides a theoretical basis for the development of new anti-SARS-CoV-2 drugs and their treatment methods.\n\u672c\u7814\u7a76\u65e8\u5728\u4ece\u56fd\u5bb6\u536b\u751f\u5065\u5eb7\u59d4\u5458\u4f1a\u53d1\u5e03\u7684\u300a\u65b0\u578b\u51a0\u72b6\u75c5\u6bd2\u80ba\u708e\u8bca\u7597\u65b9\u6848\uff08\u8bd5\u884c\u7b2c\u4e5d\u7248\uff09\u300b\u91cd\u578b\u548c\u5371\u91cd\u578b\u836f\u65b9\u4e2d\u7b5b\u9009\u53ef\u80fd\u5bf9\u65b0\u578b\u51a0\u72b6\u75c5\u6bd2\u80ba\u708e\uff08COVID-19\uff09\u6709\u6cbb\u7597\u4f5c\u7528\u7684\u6d3b\u6027\u6210\u5206\uff0c\u5e76\u901a\u8fc7\u5176\u4e0e\u4e25\u91cd\u6025\u6027\u547c\u5438\u7efc\u5408\u5f81\u51a0\u72b6\u75c5\u6bd22\uff08SARS-CoV-2\uff09\u86cb\u767d\u7684\u76f8\u4e92\u4f5c\u7528\u9610\u91ca\u5176\u4f5c\u7528\u673a\u5236\u3002\u91c7\u7528\u56fd\u9645ETCM\u6570\u636e\u5e93\u548cSwissADME\u6570\u636e\u5e93\u7b5b\u90093\u4e2a\u836f\u65b9\u4e2d25\u5473\u4e2d\u836f\u6240\u542b\u6709\u7684\u6d3b\u6027\u6210\u5206\uff0c\u4f7f\u7528PDB\u6570\u636e\u5e93\u83b7\u53d6SARS-CoV-2\u76844\u79cd\u86cb\u767d\u8d28\u7684\u6676\u4f53\u7ed3\u6784\uff0c\u91c7\u7528Autodock Vina\u8fdb\u884c\u5206\u5b50\u5bf9\u63a5\uff0c\u4f7f\u7528GROMACS\u8fdb\u884c\u5206\u5b50\u52a8\u529b\u5b66\u6a21\u62df\u3002\u5206\u5b50\u7ed3\u5408\u80fd\u7ed3\u679c\u663e\u793a\u590f\u59c6\u6bd4\u5965\u7eb3\u3001\u7518\u8349\u7d20L\u3001\u6728\u7280\u8349\u82f7\u548c\u9ec4\u82a9\u82f7\u7b4944\u79cd\u6d3b\u6027\u6210\u5206\u4e0eSARS-CoV-2\u7684\u591a\u4e2a\u9776\u70b9\u663e\u793a\u51fa\u826f\u597d\u7684\u7ed3\u5408\u4eb2\u548c\u529b\uff0c\u800c\u5206\u5b50\u52a8\u529b\u5b66\u6a21\u62df\u5206\u6790\u663e\u793a\u590f\u59c6\u6bd4\u5965\u7eb3\u4e0eSARS-CoV-2\u7684\u6838\u8863\u58f3\u86cb\u767d\u80fd\u591f\u66f4\u7d27\u5bc6\u5730\u7ed3\u5408\u5e76\u53d1\u6325\u6709\u6548\u7684\u6291\u5236\u4f5c\u7528\u3002\u672c\u7814\u7a76\u91c7\u7528\u73b0\u4ee3\u6280\u672f\u65b9\u6cd5\u5bf9\u4e2d\u836f\u6d3b\u6027\u6210\u5206\u8fdb\u884c\u7814\u7a76\uff0c\u53d1\u73b0\u590f\u59c6\u6bd4\u5965\u7eb3\u662fSARS-CoV-2\u6838\u8863\u58f3\u86cb\u767d\u7684\u6709\u6548\u6291\u5236\u5242\uff0c\u4e3a\u5f00\u53d1\u65b0\u578b\u7684\u6297SARS-CoV-2\u836f\u7269\u53ca\u5176\u6cbb\u7597\u65b9\u6cd5\u63d0\u4f9b\u79d1\u5b66\u7684\u7406\u8bba\u4f9d\u636e\u3002.", 
    "abstract": "Direct discharge of chromium-containing waste water and improper disposal of waste residues in industrial sites may lead to the vertical migration of metals into aquifers, posing serious threat to soil-groundwater system. The heterogeneity in soil profile further aggravates the complexity and unpredictability of this transport process. However, topsoil was the main focus of most studies. Herein, the vertical transport and transformation of Cr in soils at different depths in three industrial sites (i.e., Shijiazhuang, Zhuzhou, and Guangzhou) were investigated to delineate Cr transport and retention characteristics under complex conditions. Regional and vertical differences in soil properties led to the specificity in Cr migration behaviors among these three sites. Correlation analysis showed that soil pH (r = -0.909, p < 0.05) and Fe content (r = 0.949, p < 0.01) were the major controlling factors of Cr(VI) migration and transformation in aquifers. Furthermore, the soil of Zhuzhou site showed the maximum adsorption capacity for Cr(VI) (0.225 mol/kg), and the strongest reduction ability of Cr(VI) was observed in the Guangzhou soil. Results of model-based long-term forecast indicated that the Cr(III) concentration in the liquid phase of Guangzhou subsoil could reach 0.08 mol/m", 
    "abstract": "Medicinal plants have been exploited for therapeutic purposes since the dawn of civilization and have long been acknowledged essential to human health. The purpose of this research is to examine the scientific evidence for using the therapeutic herbal plants Thalictrum foliolosum DC. and Cordia dichotoma G. Forst. to treat hepatitis illness. The fundamental explanation for the therapeutic relevance of these plants is phytochemicals, which were evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively in three separate extracts with different solvent properties (methanol-polar, chloroform-non-polar, and aqueous-polar as one of the bases of traditional use). Flavonoids, phenols, tannins, saponins, and alkaloids were all evaluated for their presence in plant extracts, and it was observed that methanolic extract had the highest content of phytochemicals among different extracts whereas, the aqueous extract showed least amount of phytochemicals. Additionally, the antioxidant activity of these plants was also evaluated and methanolic extract was revealed with potential antioxidant activity, as also evidenced by the lowest half inhibitory concentration (IC", 
    "abstract": "Smoking constitutes a major global health problem. As it triggers various health hazards including cancers, cardiac and pulmonary illness, it is imperative to understand the mechanism of action of various smoke constituents on our cellular processes. Various ", 
    "abstract": "SiRNA is a new generation of drug molecules and a new approach for treating a variety of diseases such as cancer and viral infections. SiRNA delivery to cells and translocation into cytoplasm are the main challenges in the clinical application of siRNA. Lipid carriers are one of the most successful carriers for siRNA delivery. In this study, we investigated the interaction of siRNA with a zwitterionic bilayer and how ion concentration and lipid conjugation can affect it. The divalent cation such as Mg", 
    "abstract": "Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) is a key enzyme and mediator in the aetiology of high blood pressure (HBP) and hypertension. As one of the leading cause of untimely death worldwide, there is a lot of research and studies on the management and treatment of hypertension. The usage of medicinal plants in the management of hypertension as alternative to synthetic allopathic drugs is a common practice in folkloric and traditional medicine. Therefore, this study was aimed to investigate the ACE inhibitory activity of some medicinal plants which are commonly used in the treatment of HBP in southwestern part of Nigeria using extensive in-silico approach. Compounds identified in the plants through GC-MS technique, together with Lisinopril were docked against ACE protein. It was observed that only 40 of the compounds had binding affinity\u2009\u2265\u2009- 6.8\u00a0kcal/mol which was demonstrated by the standard drug (lisinopril). Interaction between the compounds and ACE was via conventional hydrogen, carbon hydrogen, alkyl, pi-alkyl, pi-carbon, and Van Der Wall bonds among others. Most of these compounds exhibited drug like properties, without violating majority of the physicochemical descriptors and Lipinski rule of 5. The ADMET evaluation revealed that only 2 compounds (cyclopentadecanone and oxacycloheptadecan-2-one) which were identified in \nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-022-00135-z.", 
    "abstract": "Nervous necrosis virus (NNV) is a deadly infectious disease that affects several fish species. It has been found that the NNV utilizes grouper heat shock cognate protein 70 (GHSC70) to enter the host cell. Thus, blocking the virus entry by targeting the responsible protein can protect the fishes from disease. The main objective of the study was to evaluate the inhibitory potentiality of 70 compounds of Azadirachta indica (Neem plant) which has been reported to show potential antiviral activity against various pathogens, but activity against the NNV has not yet been reported. The binding affinity of 70 compounds was calculated against the GHSC70 with the docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation approaches. Both the docking and MD methods predict 4 (PubChem CID: 14492795, 10134, 5280863, and 11119228) inhibitory compounds that bind strongly with the GHSC70 protein with a binding affinity of -9.7, -9.5, -9.1, and -9.0 kcal/mol, respectively. Also, the ADMET (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity) properties of the compounds confirmed the drug-likeness properties. As a result of the investigation, it may be inferred that Neem plant compounds may act as significant inhibitors of viral entry into the host cell. More in-vitro testing is needed to establish their effectiveness.", 
    "abstract": "Acanthamoeba species are capable of causing amoebic keratitis (AK). As a monotherapy, alpha-mangostin is effective for the treatment of AK; however, its bioavailability is quite poor. Moreover, the efficacy of therapy is contingent on the parasite and virulent strains. To improve readiness against AK, it is necessary to find other derivatives with accurate target identification. Beta-tubulin (BT) has been used as a target for anti-Acanthamoeba (", 
    "abstract": "To address the issue of not having enough labeled fault data for planetary gearboxes in actual production, this research develops a simulation data-driven deep transfer learning fault diagnosis method that applies fault diagnosis knowledge from a dynamic simulation model to an actual planetary gearbox. Massive amounts of different fault simulation data are collected by creating a dynamic simulation model of a planetary gearbox. A fresh deep transfer learning network model is built by fusing one-dimensional convolutional neural networks, attention mechanisms, and domain adaptation methods. The network model is used to learn domain invariant features from simulated data, thereby enabling fault diagnosis on real data. The fault diagnosis experiment is verified by using the Drivetrain Diagnostics Simulator test bench. The validity of the proposed means is evaluated by comparing the diagnostic accuracy of various means on various diagnostic tasks.", 
    "abstract": "Single nucleotide polymorphisms detected in the solute carrier member family-22 has been shown to result in a variable response in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus with Metformin. This study predicted a three-dimensional protein structure for the SLC22A2 protein sequence using AlphaFold 2 and modelled five haplotypes within SLC22A2 protein structure observed in the Xhosa population of South Africa. The protein models were used to determine the effect(s) of haplotype variations on the transport function of Metformin and 10 other drugs by the SLC22A2 protein. Molecular dynamic simulation studies, molecular docking and interaction analysis of the five SLC22A2 haplotypes were performed in complex with the ligand 5RE in a POPC lipid bilayer to understand the mechanism of drug binding. Weakest binding free energy was found between 5RE and haplotype 1. Molecular docking studies indicated the top binding ligands as well as Metformin to bind inside the transport channel in all haplotypes increasing the probability of Metformin inhibition during co-administration of drugs. Metformin showed reduced binding affinity and number of interactions compared to the top four binding molecules. Molecular dynamic simulation analysis indicated that haplotypes 1, 3 and 4 were less stable than 2 and 5. The findings suggest haplotypes 4 and 5 having stronger preference for large inhibitor molecule binding in the active site and this could result in haplotypes 4 and 5 demonstrating reduced Metformin clearance via the SLC22A2 transporter during co-administration of drugs. The current study is the first to investigate the potential effect(s) of haplotype variation on the protein structure of SLC22A2 to assess its ability to transport Metformin in an indigenous South African population.", 
    "abstract": "Township and rural migrant workers are returning to the business personnel's main force. Party 18 proposed a rural revitalization strategy, and the central committee of the State Council issued a series of encouraging policy measures to bring them back. The study found that migrant workers' return-home entrepreneurship and the connection between the rural industries on the basis of factor resources flow are related. As a result, this study analyzed the practical situation of migrant workers' return-home entrepreneurship. Next, it used a combination forecast method and dynamic simulation model of the migrant workers' return-home entrepreneurship and revitalization of the relationship with the rural industry. The resuscitation of rural industries can be efficiently facilitated by the return of rural migrant workers to launch firms. Their success can attract more migrant workers to launch businesses. The total regeneration of rural areas and the prosperity of farmers can be achieved by effectively linking the return of migrant workers to launch businesses and the revival of rural industries.", 
    "abstract": "Phenyl acetamide derivatives have a wide range of biological activities, so their research and development can be useful and effective for the design production of new drugs. In this project, quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) was performed. For modeling two methods of multiple linear regression (MLR) and nonlinear regression of support vector machine (SVR) were used. In the MLR stage, the best model with the values of R", 
    "abstract": "Neurexin1 gene is essential for formulating synaptic cell adhesion to establish synapses. In a previous work, 38 SNPs in Neurexin1 recoded in mental disorder patients have been collected. Five computational prediction tools have been used to predict the effect of SNPs on protein function and stability. Only four SNPs in Neurexin1\u03b1 have deleterious prediction results from at least four tools. The current work aims to use molecular dynamic simulation (MD) to study the effects of the four mutations on Neurexin1\u03b1 both on the whole protein as well as identifying affected domains by mutations. A protein model that consists of five domains out of six domains in the real protein was used; missing residues were added, and model was tested for quality. The MD experiment has last for 1.5\u00a0\u03bcs where four parameters have been used for studying the whole protein in addition to three more parameters for the domain analysis. The whole protein study has shown that two mutations E427I for Autism and R525C for non-syndromic intellectual disability (NSID) have distinctive behavior across the four used parameters. Domain study has confirmed the previous results where the five domains of R525C have acted differently from wild type (WT), while E427I has acted differently for four domains from wild type. The other two mutations D104H and G379E have three domains that only acted differently from wild type. The fourth domain of all mutations has an obvious distinctive behavior from wild type. Further study of E427I and R525C mutations can lead to better understanding of autism and NSID.", 
    "abstract": "Pathologic anatomy is a primary factor contributing to redislocation of the patella following reconstruction of the medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL). A pivot landing was simulated following MPFL reconstruction, with the hypothesis that position of the tibial tuberosity, depth of the trochlear groove, and height of the patella are correlated with lateral patellar maltracking. Thirteen dynamic simulation models represented subjects being treated for recurrent patellar instability. Simplified Hertzian contact governed patellofemoral and tibiofemoral joint reaction forces. Pivot landing was represented with and without an MPFL graft in place. Measurements related to patellar height (Caton-Deschamps index), trochlear groove depth (lateral trochlear inclination), and position of the tibial tuberosity (lateral tibial tuberosity to posterior cruciate attachment distance, or lateral TT-PCL distance) were measured from the models and correlated with patellar lateral shift with the knee extended (5\u2009deg of flexion) and flexed (40 deg). The patella dislocated for all models without an MPFL graft and for two models with a graft represented. With an MPFL graft represented, patellar lateral shift was correlated with Caton-Deschamps index (r2\u2009>\u20090.35, p\u2009<\u20090.03) and lateral trochlear inclination (r2 \u2265 0.45, p\u2009<\u20090.02) at both 5\u2009deg and 40\u2009deg of flexion. For a simulated pivot landing with an MPFL graft in place, lateral patellar tracking was associated with a high patella (alta) and shallow trochlear groove. The study emphasizes the importance of simulating activities that place the patella at risk of dislocation when evaluating patellar stability.", 
    "abstract": "Myricitrin is a natural polyhydroxy flavonoid and is mainly derived from the bark and leaves of the Chinese Bayberry tree (Myrica rubra). It has different pharmacological activities, including antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, hypoglycemic, antiviral, liver protection and cholagogue properties, and may be added to foods, pharmaceuticals, and cosmetic products for antioxidant purposes. In this study, the interaction mechanism between myricitrin and human serum albumin (HSA) was investigated using spectroscopic methods, molecular docking techniques, and molecular dynamic simulations. We showed that the HSA/myricitrin interaction exhibited a static fluorescence quenching mechanism, and that binding processes were spontaneous in nature, with the main forces exemplified by hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic interactions, and electrostatic interactions. Fluorescence spectroscopy, ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectroscopy, synchronous fluorescence spectroscopy, three-dimensional (3D) fluorescence spectroscopy, micro-Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (micro-FTIR), and circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy showed that myricitrin binding altered the HSA conformation to some extent. Competitive binding and molecular docking studies showed that the preferred binding of myricitrin on HSA was in the sub-structural domain IIA (Site I); molecular dynamic simulations revealed that myricitrin interacted with HSA to produce a well stabilized complex, and it also generated a conformational change in HSA. The antioxidant capacity of the HSA-myricitrin complex was reduced when compared with free myricitrin. The identification of HSA-myricitrin binding mechanisms provides valuable insights for the application of myricitrin to the food and pharmaceutical industries.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Fungal \u03b2-mannanases hydrolyze \u03b2-1, 4-glycosidic bonds of mannans and find application in the generation of mannose and prebiotic mannooligosaccharides (MOS). Previously, a MOS generating \u03b2-mannanase from Aspergillus oryzae MTCC 1846 (\u03b2ManAo) was characterized and its structural and functional properties were unraveled through homology modeling and molecular dynamics in this study. The \u03b2ManAo model was validated with 92.9% and 6.5% of the residues found to be distributed in the most favorable and allowed regions of the Ramachandran plot. Glu244 was found to play a key role in the interaction with mannotriose, indicating conserved amino acids for the catalytic reaction. A detailed metadynamic analysis of the principal components revealed the presence of an \u03b18-helix in the C-terminus which was very flexible in nature and energy landscapes suggested high conformation sub-states and the complex dynamic behavior of the protein. The binding of the M3 substrate stabilized the \u03b2-mannanase and resulted in a reduction in the intermediate conformational sub-states evident from the free energy landscapes. The active site of the \u03b2-mannanase is mostly hydrophilic in nature which is accordance with our results, where the major contribution in the binding energy of the substrate with the active site is from electrostatic interactions. Define Secondary Structure of Proteins (DSSP) analysis revealed a major transition of the protein from helix to \u03b2-turn for binding with the mannotriose. The molecular dynamics of the \u03b2ManAo-mannotriose model, and the role and interactions of catalytic residues with ligand were also described. The substrate binding pocket of \u03b2ManAo was found to be highly dynamic and showed large, concerted movements. The outcomes of the present study can be exploited in further understanding the structural properties and functional dynamics of \u03b2ManAo.", 
    "abstract": "More than fifty years after the commercialization of the Ventolin metered-dose inhaler (MDI), its constituent active ingredient, salbutamol sulfate (SS), remains the most prescribed short-acting beta agonist for the first-line treatment of acute asthma attacks and the metered-dose inhaler remains its primary dosage form. The first generation of Ventolin MDI was developed at a time when environmental and regulatory concerns were less stringent than today. The MDI industry is now on the verge of a second major reformulation effort in response to environmental concerns. This paper serves to illustrate how modern computational modeling of molecular interactions can aid the reformulation process. By way of a case study, computational modeling was performed to compare poly(ethylene glycol) 400 (PEG400) and, separately, isopropyl myristate (IPM) as substitutes for the ethanol used in some generic salbutamol sulfate suspension-based hydrofluoroalkane MDIs.\nPEG400 and IPM were investigated as potential alternative cosolvents to ethanol in HFA134a-based SS suspension MDI formulations. Density functional theory (DFT) molecular dynamics simulations were used to evaluate the compatibility of the candidate cosolvents with the formulation's components. Corresponding physical formulations were filled into polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and, separately, aluminium canisters. In-vitro pharmaceutical product performance and macroscopic visual appearance were assessed and compared to the results of the simulation studies.\nThe simulation studies indicated that PEG400 would be a good candidate as a replacement for ethanol whereas IPM would not. The in-vitro and visual assessments support the predicted outcome of the simulation studies.\nThis work suggests that molecular dynamics simulations may provide a useful tool to aid the selection of compatible excipients when reformulating MDI suspension-based products, thereby reducing the time and cost associated with manufacturing and testing of physical samples.", 
    "abstract": "Nipah virus (NiV) is a novel zoonotic pathogen that belongs to the ", 
    "abstract": "Main protease (M", 
    "abstract": "According to observational studies, two polymorphisms in the apolipoprotein L1 (\nTo predict the active site and allosteric site on the \nAccording to CASTp's active site characterization, the topmost predicted site had a surface area of 964.892 \u00c5\nUsing a combination of different computational techniques, we identified binding sites within the ", 
    "abstract": "Alopecia is a health condition in which the hair loses its function in some or all of the body. Alopecia occurs due to various genetic, environmental, and nutritional factors. One of the methods developed to treat alopecia is through inhibition of the enzyme 5-", 
    "abstract": "This study investigated the trade-off between energy saving and N", 
    "abstract": "Two new series of 1,3,4-oxadiazoles bearing pyridine and thiazole heterocycles (4a-h and 5a-h) were synthesized (2,5-disubstituted-1,3,4-oxadiazoles). The structures of these newly synthesized compounds were confirmed by ", 
    "abstract": "The SARS-CoV-2 claimed millions of lives, globally. Occurring from Wuhan (wild type) in December, 2019, it constantly mutated to Omicron (B.1.1.529), the predecessor to Delta. Omicron having\u2009~\u200932 spike mutations has variable infectivity-multiplicity-immuno-invasive properties. Understanding of its mutational effect on ACE2-binding/disease severity and developing preventive/therapeutic strategies are important. The binding affinities of Wuhan/Delta/Omicron spikes (PDB/GISAID/SWISS-MODEL) were docked (HADDOCK2.4) with ACE2 and compared by competitive-docking (PRODIGY). The protein structural stability was verified by kinetic-data/Ramachandran-plot (Zlab/UMassMedBioinfo). After several trials, a 59 amino acid (453ARG-510VAL) peptide-cut (Expasy-server) of the wild-type spike RBD with some desired mutants (THR500SER/THR500GLY/THR500ALA/THR500CYS) was blindly/competitively docked (PyMOL-V2.2.2) to block the Omicron-ACE2 binding. We examined molecular dynamic simulation (iMOD-server, with 9000 cycles/300\u00a0k-heating/1\u00a0atm pressure for system equilibration for 50\u00a0ns-run) of ACE2 and two CUTs with different SARS-CoV-2 variants. The binding-affinity of Omicron-ACE2 is slightly higher than the rest two in competitive docking setup. During individual (1:1) docking, Omicron showed little higher than wild type but much weaker binding affinity than Delta. Competitive docking suggests ten H-bonding (1.3-2.4\u00a0\u00c5) with highly favorable energy values/Van-der-Walls-force/Haddock score for more stable-binding of Omicron-RBD with ACE2. Blind docking of different CUTs (wild/mutants) and Omicron to ACE2 completely rejected the Omicron-RBD from ACE2-target. The best blocking/binding affinity of\u2009-16.4 and\u2009-13\u00a0kcal/mole were observed in the case of THR500SER and THR500GLY, respectively, with multiple H-bonding 1.9-2.2\u00a0\u00c5. These are supported by the MD-simulation results. So, the spike binding affinities were Delta\u2009>\u2009Omicron\u2009>\u2009wild in 1:1 docking with ACE2. Considering the wild type is non-existing nowadays, Omicron showed less ACE2 binding properties. The 59 cut of spike-RBD and its mutant THR500SER/THR500GLY may be further screened as universal blockers of this virus.\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11224-022-02022-x.", 
    "abstract": "Epilepsy is a severe neurological disorder that occurs when the communication between the neurons is disturbed. Gamma-amino butyric acid-associated protein (GABARAP) plays a key role in balancing Gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA(A)) receptor functions of inhibiting the neurotransmission and controlling the seizure. In this study, we introduce the derivatives of the selected anti-epileptic drugs, namely Felbamate and Clobazam, by substituting different hydrophilic and hydrophobic groups at the specified positions. Molecular docking studies between the derivatives and GABARAP were carried out using PyRx software. The interacting residues were identified from LigPlot", 
    "abstract": "China is promoting the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region as a national strategy project; however, water scarcity and water quality problems will become a bottleneck restricting high-quality development. This study aimed to explore a feasible industrial synergy optimisation pathway to realise the collaborative development of economic growth and water environment improvement, combined with incentives for environmental efficiency improvement and reclaimed water utilisation. Research methods integrate input-output modelling, system dynamics, and multi-objective programming to construct a complex multi-region model. A dynamic simulation measure was adopted to simulate the economic and environmental impacts of different approaches that mix from 2020 to 2030 under water resource environment constraints. According to the simulation results, the annual economic growth rate of the entire region can exceed 6.1%, and the emission intensities of water pollutants decrease by more than 60.0%. In addition, traditional manufacturing industries that achieve cross-regional synergy can still release location advantages without negative environmental impacts. Furthermore, regional collaborative development optimises the allocation of water resources and alleviates water stress. Moreover, the pollutant emission reduction effect of source control in Hebei was more effective than in other cities. Finally, reclaimed water, as the end treatment measure, has the largest marginal effect on improving the trade-off between economic and environmental improvement in the long run. This study provides a new approach for multi-regional industrial synergy development and optimal allocation of resources and contributes to the high-quality development of the watershed.", 
    "abstract": "Hypertension is the main cause of human death and the Renin- Angiotensin- Aldosterone System (RAAS) has a key role in the control of human blood pressure. In this research a multi-step virtual screening strategy was applied in order to find new potential renin inhibitors. The crystal structure of renin-aliskiren complex was explored and receptor-ligand pharmacophore model was developed and validated using pharmit. ZINC database was screened by pharmacophore model and Lipinski's rule of five. Thereafter, the retrieved hits were docked in the active site of renin by using Vina. ADME parameters and toxicity of the filtered compounds were approximated using in silico methods and the selected compounds were subjected to high performance docking in order to improve the accuracy of screening. The non-bond interactions of the hit molecules with renin were explored and the compounds with the highest affinity and appropriate interactions were selected. In the last step, molecular dynamic simulation studies were performed on the complex of renin with aliskiren and three top-ranked structures including ZINC6085004, ZINC426421106, and ZINC5481346. RMSD, RMSF, Rg and number of hydrogen bonds were calculated. The binding free energy was calculated using the MM/PBSA method. The result of MD simulation indicated the stable binding of ZINC426421106 and ZINC5481346 with the active site of renin. According to this in-silico study these two compounds are drug-like, nontoxic, and have a high potential for inhibiting renin and could serve as appropriate lead molecules for the development of renin inhibitors as antihypertensive agents.", 
    "abstract": "Post-translational modifications of proteins such as protein ubiquitination are crucial for regulating conformation, stability and localization of the modified protein. Ubiquitin-specific protease 2 (USP2), a multifunctional cysteine protease is reported to be a key regulator of ubiquitylation events in numerous oncogenic proteins e.g., fatty acid synthetase, Mdm2, EGFR, cyclin A1, and cyclin-D1, etc. Thus targeting USP2 is a promising strategy for cancer therapy. USP2 is characterized by a catalytic triad comprising of cysteine, histidine and aspartic acid residues. Five residues including three from the catalytic triad and two from outside of the catalytic triad have been reported as a catalytic site of USP2 that catalyze hydrolysis and stabilizes the oxyanion formed in the intermediate step of catalysis. Here, we report two more novel residues (L269 and Y558) on USP2 involved in the catalysis of Ubiquitin using computational alanine scanning (CAS) followed by molecular dynamic simulation studies. The results obtained from CAS were further validated by a highly reliable, time- and cost-effective SDS-PAGE-based kinetics assay using UBA52 which is a natural substrate of USP2. Our results showed that mutating L269 and Y558 significantly compromised the catalytic efficiency of USP2 in hydrolyzing UBA52 which can further be extended to rational drug design of USP2 selective inhibitors and to explore the catalytic sites of other USPs. Two novel residues take part in catalytic activity of USP2 which were depicted by MD Simulations and were further validated by novel SDS-PAGE-based reliable time- and cost-effective kinetics assay.", 
    "abstract": "Valvular heart diseases are growing concern in impoverished parts of the world, such as Southern-Africa, claiming more than 31 % of total deaths related to cardiovascular diseases. The ability to model the effects of regurgitant and obstructive lesions on the valve body can assist clinicians in preparing personalised treatments. In the present work, a multi-compartment lumped parameter model of the human cardiovascular system is developed, with a newly proposed valve modelling approach which accounts for geometry and flow regime dependent pressure drops along with the valve cusp motion. The model is applied to study various degrees of aortic stenosis using typical human cardiovascular parameters. The predicted transvalvular pressure drops for the different modelling approaches are compared to typical measured mean and peak gradients found in literature for severely stenosed aortic valves. The comparison between the predicted and measured values show that the previously published valve models under predicts expected severely stenosed peak and mean transvalvular pressure drops by approximately 47% and 25% respectively, whereas the newly proposed model under predicts the peak pressure drop by 25% and over predicts mean pressure drop by 7%.", 
    "abstract": "As deformation and defects are inevitable during the manufacture and service of graphene resonators, comprehensive molecular dynamic (MD) simulations are performed to investigate the vibrational properties of the defective single-layer graphene sheets (SLGSs) during tension. Perfect SLGSs, SLGSs with single vacancy, SLGSs with low-concentration vacancies, and SLGSs with high-concentration vacancies are considered, respectively. The frequencies of the perfect and defective SLGSs at different stretching stages are investigated in detail. The effects of different external forces are also taken into account to study the vibration properties of the defective SLGSs. Results show that the perfect and defective SLGSs both successively perform four stages, i.e., the elastic stage, the yield stage, the hardening stage, and the fracture stage during stretching, and the elastic properties of the SLGSs are insensitive to the vacancy defects, while the ultimate strain is noticeably reduced by the vacancies. The single vacancy has no effect on the vibration properties of SLGS, while the frequency decreases with the increasing vacancy concentration for SLGS at the elastic stage. The frequency of yielded SLGS with a certain vacancy concentration is almost constant even with a varying external force.", 
    "abstract": "Inflammation is caused by a cascade of events, one of which is the metabolism of arachidonic acid, that begins with oxidation by the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase. 5-Lipoxygenase (5-LOX) plays an important role in the inflammation process by synthesizing leukotrienes and several lipid mediators and has emerged as a possible therapeutic target for treatment of inflammatory diseases such as asthma and rheumatoid arthritis. Most of the existing 5-LOX inhibitors are synthetic and exhibit adverse side effects. In view of this, there is need to search for an alternate source of 5-LOX inhibitor with minimal side effects. The essential oil of several species of Curcuma has received considerable attention in recent times in traditional system of medicine especially for treating various inflammatory disorders. Therefore, the present study was carried out to screen the most potential 5-LOX inhibitors from essential oil components of Curcuma species and elucidate their mechanisms of action through computational biology approaches. Twenty-three phytoconstituents derived from the essential oil of Curcuma species were docked and their predictive binding energies were calculated to select the best possible ligand for 5-LOX. The top 8 ranked compounds from docking was tested for drug-likeness properties, bioactivity score, and toxicity analysis. The phytoconstituents such as \u03b1-turmerone, \u03b2-turmerone, \u03b1-terpineol and dihydrocarveolshowed the best binding affinity with 5-LOX and displayed favorable physicochemical properties. Molecular dynamics simulation in POPC lipid bilayers was carried out to understand the intrinsic dynamics and flexibility of the 5-LOX (apo) and 5-LOX-complex (\u03b1-terpineol, \u03b1-turmerone, \u03b2-turmerone and dihydrocarveol) systems. The molecular dynamic results showed that these 4 phytoconstituents interacted stably with the 5-LOX active site residues and the important bonds that were observed in the initial ligand docked compounds did not alter during the course of simulation. In general, our integrative computational approach demonstrated that the natural compounds like \u03b1-turmerone, \u03b2-turmerone, \u03b1-terpineol, and dihydrocarveol could be considered for designing specific anti-inflammatory drugs using structure-based drug design.", 
    "abstract": "Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy (MNGIE; OMIM 603041) is a rare inherited metabolic disorder mostly caused by mutations in TYMP gene encoding thymidine phosphorylase (TP) protein that affects the mitochondrial nucleotide metabolism. TP, functionally active as a homodimer, is involved in the salvage pathway of pyrimidine nucleosides. MNGIE-like syndrome having an overlapping phenotype of MNGIE was also described and has been associated with mutations in POLG and RRM2B genes. In the present study, we report the molecular investigation of a consanguineous family including two patients with clinical features suggestive of MNGIE syndrome. Bioinformatics analyses were carried out in addition to mtDNA deletion screening and copy number quantification in the blood of the two patients. Whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing analyses revealed the segregation in the affected family a novel mutation c.1205T>A (p.L402Q) within the exon 9 of the TYMP gene. In addition, mtDNA analysis revealed the absence of mtDNA deletions and a decrease of the copy number in the blood of the two patients of the studied family. The p.Leu402Gln mutation was located in a conserved amino acid within the \u03b1/\u03b2 domain of the TP protein and several software supported its pathogenicity. In addition, and based on docking and molecular dynamic simulation analyses, results revealed that L402Q caused a conformational change in TP mutated structure and could therefore alter its flexibility and stability. These changes prevent also the formation of stable homodimer leading to non-functional protein with partial or complete loss of its catalytic activity.", 
    "abstract": "Progressive encephalopathy with brain edema and/or leukoencephalopathy, PEBEL1, is a severe neurometabolic disorder characterized by rapidly progressive neurologic deterioration associated with a febrile illness. PEBEL1 is a lethal encephalopathy caused by NAXE gene mutations. Here we report a 6-month-old boy with mitochondrial encephalomyopathy from a consanguineous family. Molecular analysis was performed using whole-exome sequencing followed by segregation analysis. In addition, in silico prediction tools and molecular dynamic approaches were used to predict the structural effect of the mutation. Furthermore, molecular docking of the substrate NADP in both wild-type and mutated NAXE protein was carried out. Molecular analysis revealed the presence of the novel homozygous mutation c.641\u00a0T\u2009>\u2009A (p. Ile214Asn) in the NAXE gene, located at the NAD (P)H hydrate epimerase domain. In addition, bioinformatics analyses and molecular dynamics revealed that p. Ile214Asn mutation could affect the structure, stability, and compactness of the NAXE protein. Moreover, the result of the molecular docking showed that the p. Ile214Asn mutation leads to conformational changes in the catalytic cavity, thus modifying interaction with the substrate and restricting its access. We also compared the phenotype of our patient with those of previously reported cases with PEBEL syndrome. All bioinformatics findings provide evidence that the NAXE variant Asn214 disrupts NAXE protein functionality leading to an insufficient NAD (P)HX repair system and the development of clinical features of PEBEL1 syndrome in our patient. To our knowledge, our case is the 21st case of PEBEL1 patient worldwide and the first case in North Africa.", 
    "abstract": "Due to the emergency and uncontrolled situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic that arising in the entire world, it is necessary to choose available drugs that can inhibit or prevent the disease. Therefore, the repurposing of the commercial antibiotic, dirithromycin has been screened for the first time against fifteen receptors and compared to the azithromycin using a molecular docking approach to identify possible SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors. Our docking results showed that dirithromycin fit significantly in the Furin catalytic pocket having the lowest binding score (-9.9 Kcal/mol) with respect to azithromycin (-9.4 Kcal/mol) and can interact and block both Asp154 and Ser368 residues by Van der Walls interaction as well as bound to His194 and Ser368 residues via hydrogen bonds. Good results were also obtained with the Tmprss-2 receptor. A Molecular Dynamic simulation was assessed to confirm this interaction. Additionally, detailed receptor-ligand interactions with SARS-CoV-2 and pro-inflammatory mediators were investigated suggesting more target information with interesting results. The findings of this study are very efficient and provide a basis for the development of dirithromycin for clinical trial applications to be efficient in treating SARS-CoV-2 infections.", 
    "abstract": "Propolis contains a wide range of pharmacological activities because of their various bioactive compounds. The beneficial effect of propolis is interesting for treating type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) owing to dysregulation of multiple metabolic processes. In this study, 275 of 658 Asian propolis compounds were evaluated as potential anti-T2DM agents using the DIA-DB web server towards 18 known anti-diabetes protein targets. More than 20% of all compounds could bind to more than five diabetes targets with high binding affinity (<\u22129.0 kcal/mol). Filtering with physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties, including ADMET parameters, 12 compounds were identified as potential anti-T2DM with favorable ADMET properties. Six of those compounds, (2R)-7,4\u2032-dihydroxy-5-methoxy-8-methylflavone; (RR)-(+)-3\u2032-senecioylkhellactone; 2\u2032,4\u2032,6\u2032-trihydroxy chalcone; alpinetin; pinobanksin-3-O-butyrate; and pinocembrin-5-methyl ether were first reported as anti-T2DM agents. We identified the significant T2DM targets of Asian propolis, namely retinol-binding protein-4 (RBP4) and aldose reductase (AKR1B1) that have important roles in insulin sensitivity and diabetes complication, respectively. Molecular dynamic simulations showed stable interaction of selected propolis compounds in the active site of RBP4 and AKR1B1. These findings suggest that Asian propolis compound may be effective for treatment of T2DM by targeting RBP4 and AKR1B1.", 
    "abstract": "Shikonin (SK), a naphthoquinone compound from the purple gromwell, Lithospermum erythrorhizon, possesses a considerable antiproliferative potential. By using a combination of biophysical techniques, cellular assays, immunofluorescence imaging, and molecular dynamic simulation, we identified a possible mechanism of action of SK. SK inhibited the viability of the triple negative breast cancer cells MDA-MB-231\u00a0(IC", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we investigated the potential material basis of Yupingfeng powder in the prevention and treatment of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia (NCP) by applying molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation technology.\nThe active ingredients and predictive targets of Yupingfeng powder were sourced using the TCMSP, ETCM, and TCMIP traditional Chinese medicine databases. NCP-related targets were then acquired from the DisGeNET and GeneCards databases, and common disease-drug targets were imported into the STRING database, and Cytoscape software was used to generate a protein-protein interaction network following the use of a network topology algorithm to identify key target genes. Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis was then performed using the target genes and GOEAST and DAVID online tools. The mechanism of Yupingfeng powder in the prevention and treatment of NCP was analyzed with reference to the relevant literature. AutoDock software was used for molecular docking, the preliminary analysis of binding status, and to identify the best conformation. Desmond software was used to perform molecular dynamic simulations for protein and compound complexes, perform free energy calculations and hydrogen bond analysis, and to further verify the binding mode.\nOverall, 38 main active components and 218 predictive targets of Yupingfeng powder were identified and 298 disease targets related to NCP were retrieved from disease databases. Yupingfeng powder was found to act predominantly on the TNF, Toll-like receptor, HIF-1, NOD-like receptor, cytokine-receptor interaction, MAPK, T cell receptor, and VEGF signaling pathways. Molecular docking of the three selected key active components with the 3CL-like protease (3CL-Pro) of SARS-CoV-2 showed that they each had a strong binding force and good affinity.\nYupingfeng powder primarily acts on multiple active ingredients and potential targets through multiple action channels and signal pathways. Molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation technology were used to effectively predict and analyze the potential mechanism by which this Chinese medicine can combat NCP. These results provide a reference for developing new modern Chinese medicine preparations against NCP in the future.", 
    "abstract": "Given the significant clinical potential of human plasminogen Kringle 5 on tumours, it is crucial to seek its receptors for a thorough comprehension of its physiological functions and mechanism. Eleven candidates have been screened out in our previous works. In the present work, we further inquired whether the candidate, von Willebrand factor type A domain 1 in coagulation factor C homology protein (abbr. vWA1), was a potential receptor of Kringle 5, and investigated their binding mechanism by bio-specific experiments, frontal affinity analysis (FA), and molecular dynamic simulation (MDS). After the potential was validated by bio-specific experiments, the FA results stated that vWA1 exhibited a strong interaction towards Kringle 5 in the proportion of 1:1 with the binding constant of 4.18\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010", 
    "abstract": "Commonly used approach to illness assessment focuses on the patient's actual state supplemented by binary records of past events and conditions. This research project was designed to explain subjective experience in idiopathic hypersomnia (IH) patients influenced by their clinical symptoms and comorbidities.\nForty-three IH patients of both sexes (female 60.5%, male 39.5%) were assessed using a detailed structured examination. The interview covered neurologic, psychiatric, and internal medicine anamnesis, medication past and current, substance abuse, work impairment, detailed sleep-related data, specific sleep medication, and a full-length set of questionnaires including depression, quality of life, sleepiness, anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, and sleep inertia. The data were digitized and imported into statistical software (SPSS by IBM), and dynamic simulation software (Vensim by Ventana Systems Inc.) was used to build a causal loop diagram and stocks and flows diagram as a simulation structure.\nThe overall raw data and simulation-based patterns fit at 76.1%. The simulation results also identified the parameters that contribute the most to patients' subjective experience. These included sleep inertia, the refreshing potential of naps, the quality of nocturnal sleep, and the social aspects of the patient's life. Psychiatric disorders influence the overall pattern at a surprisingly low level. The influence of medication has been studied in detail. Although its contribution to the dynamics looks marginal at first sight, it significantly influences the contribution of other variables to the overall patient experience of the disease.\nEven the simplified dynamic structure designed by the research team reflects the real-life events in patients with IH at the acceptable level of 76.1% and suggests that a similar structure plays an important role in the course of the disease. Therapeutic focus on the parameters identified by the model should enhance the patients' subjective experience throughout illness duration and might even turn the progress from negative into positive. Further research is needed to understand the dynamics of idiopathic hypersomnia in greater detail to better understand the causes and design therapeutic approaches to improve patients' quality of life.", 
    "abstract": "The experimental X-ray diffraction study of the Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text] (at 1010 and 1310\u00a0[Formula: see text]C) and Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text] (at 1100 and 1400\u00a0[Formula: see text]C) melts was performed. MD simulation of the Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text], Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text], Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text], Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text], Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text], and Al[Formula: see text]Cu[Formula: see text] melts was carried out using several interatomic interaction potentials. It was found that the best agreement with experimental structural and transport data was achieved using the bond-order potential for the Al-Cu melts with predominant content of aluminum and embedded atom method potential for the Cu-based binary melts. The detailed analyses of short-range order in the Al-Cu melts were performed using partial structure factor and pair correlation function calculated from MD models. The formation of the chemical short-range order and medium-range order in the investigated melts was discussed.", 
    "abstract": "The COVID-19 pandemic outbreak demands the designing of potential drugs as there is no specific treatment available. Thanks to their safety and effectiveness, phytochemicals have been used to treat various diseases, including antiviral therapeutics. Molecular docking is a simple, quick, and effective way to screen a variety of molecules for structure-based drug design. Here, we investigate molecular docking experiments on compounds present in plant species, \nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11224-022-01982-4.", 
    "abstract": "Mancozeb is a broad-spectrum fungicide used extensively in agriculture to protect plants from numerous diseases. Hemolysis of human erythrocytes on exposure to mancozeb has been reported. In the present study, we investigated the interaction of mancozeb with human hemoglobin (Hb) using multi-spectroscopic techniques, molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation. UV-visible spectroscopy studies suggested intimate binding of mancozeb to Hb. Mancozeb quenched the intrinsic fluorescence of Hb and Stern-Volmer plots revealed that the quenching mechanism was of static type. Evaluation of thermodynamic parameters indicated that the binding of Hb to mancozeb was spontaneous, with van der Waals forces and hydrogen bonding being the key contributors in the binding reaction. Synchronous fluorescence experiments demonstrated that mancozeb altered the microenvironment around tryptophan residues, whereas polarity around tyrosine residues was not changed. Circular dichroism studies showed a decrease in the \u03b1 helical content of Hb upon interaction with mancozeb. The inhibition of esterase activity showed that mancozeb can impair the enzymatic functions of Hb. Molecular docking study revealed that strong binding affinity existed between mancozeb and Hb, with hydrophobic forces playing a crucial role in the interaction. Molecular dynamic simulation showed that mancozeb formed a stable complex with Hb resulting in slight unfolding of the protein. To sum up, the results of this study show that mancozeb binds strongly to Hb, induces conformational changes in Hb and adversely affects its function.", 
    "abstract": "Inhibiting the activity of \u03b1-amylase has been considered as one efficient way to prevent and treat type 2 diabetes recently. Dalbergia odorifera, a kind of Leguminosae plant, has a positive therapeutic effect on type 2 diabetes, possibly contributing by some constituents that can inhibit the activity of \u03b1-amylase. In this study, we found that eriodictyol was one potential constituent through virtual screening. The interaction mode between eriodictyol and \u03b1-amylase was elucidated by molecular docking, multi-spectroscopic analysis, and molecular dynamic simulation. The results revealed that eriodictyol quenched the intrinsic fluorescence of \u03b1-amylase, and the quenching mode was static quenching. Eriodictyol could spontaneously interact with \u03b1-amylase, mostly stabilized and influenced by the hydrophobic interaction, while the binding sites (n) was 1.13\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.07 and binding constant (K", 
    "abstract": "The vanins are ectoenzymes with pantetheinase activity and are involved in recycling pantothenic acid (vitamin B5) from pantetheine. Elevated levels of vanin have been linked with the development and severity of several diseases, including steatosis, diabetes, skin diseases, cancer, inflammatory diseases etc. Therefore, vanins have previously been used as a potential drug target to combat related diseases. In this study, we used a molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation-based approach to screen dual inhibitors of hVnn1, and hVnn2 from a library of 120 chemical candidates. Molecular docking of drug candidates with hVnn1, and hVnn2 using GOLD and MOE revealed that the chemical compound \"methotrexate (CID: 126941)\" has the highest binding affinity against both the target enzymes which was further validated through molecular dynamic simulation. Toxicity profiling of drug candidates evaluated using Lipinski's rule of five and Molsoft tool, and AdmetSar 2.0 confirms the drug suitability of methotrexate, therefore, suggesting its use as a potential therapeutic agent to inhibit the activity of vainin enzyme in related disease conditions.", 
    "abstract": "In the context of the rapid increase of antibiotic-resistant infections, in particular of pneumonia, antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT), the microbiological application of photodynamic therapy (PDT), comes in as a promising treatment alternative since the induced damage and resultant death are not dependent on a specific biomolecule or cellular pathway. The applicability of aPDT using the photosensitizer indocyanine green with infrared light has been successfully demonstrated for different bacterial agents in\u00a0vitro, and the combination of pulmonary delivery using nebulization and external light activation has been shown to be feasible. However, there has been little progress in obtaining sufficient in\u00a0vivo efficacy results. This study reports the lung surfactant as a significant suppressor of aPDT in the lungs. In vitro, the clinical surfactant Survanta\u00ae reduced the aPDT effect of indocyanine green, Photodithazine\u00ae, bacteriochlorin-trizma, and protoporphyrin IX against ", 
    "abstract": "Large amplitude librations of atomic groups or of entire molecules in their crystals are simulated using optimized intermolecular potentials and crystal structures deposited in the Cambridge Structural Database. The analysis proceeds by a simple static model in which reorientations take place in a fixed environment, or by Monte Carlo (MC) simulation of equilibria dotted by rotational defects, or eventually by full Molecular Dynamics (MD). The simplest approach provides a valuable qualitative preview, but MC and MD are becoming easily accessible to the general solid-state chemist thanks to the facilities of the newly developed Milano Chemistry Molecular Simulation (MiCMoS) platform. Their combined results offer a wealth of information on the behaviour of phenyl-methyl and phenyl-trifluoromethyl groups, almost invariably affected by rotational flipping, whose nature and consequences are discussed with respect to disorder modelling in the refinement of X-ray structures. Whole-body reorientation takes place in flat molecules, benzene being the well-known prototype, but also in a very large molecule like coronene. Molecular dynamics of rotations in the cyclohexa-1,4-diene crystal offer a spectacular picture of the energetic profiles with jumping times. The dynamic oscillations described here are seldom considered in the formulation of crystal `bonds' or of `synthon' stability.", 
    "abstract": "A novel drug to treat SARS-CoV-2 infections and hydroxyl chloroquine analogue, ", 
    "abstract": "For the pelvic fracture reduction, generally the fragment of the unaffected side is fixed and the affected side is moved to its correct anatomical position and orientation. During the pelvic fracture reduction, circumpelvic muscles deformation is closely related to the surgical accuracy. In this article, the biomechanical properties of musculoskeletal tissue during pelvic fracture reduction are studied. Five-parameter hyperelastic model named Mooney-Rivlin is adopted to analyze muscle's stress-strain relationship. The finite element model of the injured pelvic musculoskeletal tissue is established, and the deformation of circumpelvic main muscles is simulated. Then, the dynamic simulation of pelvic fracture reduction is performed according to the planned spatial reduction path. The results show that when the muscles are stretched the same stretch length, the strain of the gluteus medius is the largest. It is most prone to deformation under and the muscle injury is most easily to occur. During the pelvic fracture reduction, the strain of gluteus maximus is the largest, and it is most prone to deformation and injury. The traction length is the largest, and the traction force mainly comes from the gluteus maximus. This study provides reference for the robot assisted pelvic fracture reduction.", 
    "abstract": "Given the crucial role of climate in malaria transmission, many mechanistic models of malaria represent vector biology and the parasite lifecycle as functions of climate variables in order to accurately capture malaria transmission dynamics. Lower dimension mechanistic models that utilize implicit vector dynamics have relied on indirect climate modulation of transmission processes, which compromises investigation of the ecological role played by climate in malaria transmission. In this study, we develop an implicit process-based malaria model with direct climate-mediated modulation of transmission pressure borne through the Entomological Inoculation Rate (EIR). The EIR, a measure of the number of infectious bites per person per unit time, includes the effects of vector dynamics, resulting from mosquito development, survivorship, feeding activity and parasite development, all of which are moderated by climate. We combine this EIR-model framework, which is driven by rainfall and temperature, with Bayesian inference methods, and evaluate the model's ability to simulate local transmission across 42 regions in Rwanda over four years. Our findings indicate that the biologically-motivated, EIR-model framework is capable of accurately simulating seasonal malaria dynamics and capturing of some of the inter-annual variation in malaria incidence. However, the model unsurprisingly failed to reproduce large declines in malaria transmission during 2018 and 2019 due to elevated anti-malaria measures, which were not accounted for in the model structure. The climate-driven transmission model also captured regional variation in malaria incidence across Rwanda's diverse climate, while identifying key entomological and epidemiological parameters important to seasonal malaria dynamics. In general, this new model construct advances the capabilities of implicitly-forced lower dimension dynamical malaria models by leveraging climate drivers of malaria ecology and transmission.", 
    "abstract": "Abnormal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow is associated with a variety of poorly understood neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's Disease and hydrocephalus. The lack of comprehensive understanding of the fluid and solid mechanics of CSF flow remains a critical barrier in the development of diagnostic assessment and potential treatment options for these diseases. We have developed a whole brain, patient-specific computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation of CSF flow in the cranial cavity as a step towards comprehensive understanding of CSF dynamics and how they relate to neurodegenerative diseases.\nA patient-specific 3D geometry of the CSF filled spaces was segmented from structural MRI. Patient-specific boundary conditions were measured using phase contrast MRI. A rigid wall three-dimensional CFD simulation was conducted using only patient-specific waveforms as boundary conditions. Deformation of brain tissue is accounted for using volumetric flowrate boundary conditions calculated via the conservation of mass. Phase contrast MRI measurement of maximum velocity at the cerebral aqueduct was used to validate the simulation with excellent agreement.\nThe CSF dynamics across the cardiac cycle are presented, illustrating the relationship between arterial flow and CSF flow. Flow in and out of the ventricles was shown to have a slight phase delay (\u223c20\u00a0% of the cardiac cycle) from flow in the subarachnoid space. Intracranial pressure dynamics are presented, with pressure in the Lateral Ventricles demonstrating less significant transient effects than pressure in the subarachnoid space.\nThis work presents a quantitatively validated whole-brain simulation of CSF flow for a single healthy subject. The computational methodology improves over the state of the art by eliminating non-physiological boundary conditions and unnecessary assumptions about the mechanical properties of brain tissue, providing an essential step towards clinically useful tools for assessing the development of neurodegenerative disorders.", 
    "abstract": "FoxG1 encoded by FOXG1 gene is a transcriptional factor interacting with the DNA of targeted genes as well as with several proteins to regulate the forebrain development. Mutations in the FOXG1 gene have been shown to cause a wide spectrum of brain disorders, including the congenital variant of Rett syndrome. In this study, the direct sequencing of FOXG1 gene revealed a novel c.645C\u2009>\u2009A (F215L) variant in the patient P1 and a de novo known one c.755G\u2009>\u2009A (G252D) in the patient P2. To investigate the putative impact of FOXG1 missense variants, a computational pipeline by the application of in silico prediction methods, molecular dynamic simulation, and molecular docking approaches was used. Bioinformatics analysis and molecular dynamics simulation have demonstrated that F215L and G252D variants found in the DNA binding domain are highly deleterious mutations that may cause the protein structure destabilization. On the other hand, molecular docking revealed that F215L mutant is likely to have a great impact on destabilizing the protein structure and the disruption of the Bmi-1 binding site quite significantly. Regarding G252D mutation, it seems to abolish the ability of FoxG1 to bind DNA target, affecting the transcriptional regulation of targeted genes. Our study highlights the usefulness of combined computational approaches, molecular dynamic simulation, and molecular docking for a better understanding of the dysfunctional effects of FOXG1 missense mutations and their role in the etiopathogenesis as well as in the genotype-phenotype correlation.", 
    "abstract": "Existing receptor-model-based source apportionment methods failed to derive source contributions to accumulation of soil heavy metals (SHMs). In this research, a dynamics-simulation-based source apportionment approach (DSSA) was developed by integrating mathematical models of source release, diffusion and deposition pathway, and receptor accumulation, to quantify accumulative contributions of SHMs. The case study was carried out in a complex industrialized region in southeast China to investigate pollution situation of SHMs (Zn, Pb, Ni, As, Cd, and Cr). The results showed that SHMs distributions were affected by seasonal variation and near-surface meteorology, which could be sequenced by correlation coefficient as temperature (0.968) > humidity (0.552) > precipitation (0.389) > wind speed (0.386). The source categories and corresponding contribution rates were identified as: i) battery plant to Zn (72.32%) and Pb (71.73%), ii) traffic to Ni (64.55%), iii) traffic and agriculture to Cd (43.26%, 41.63%), iv) agriculture to As (75.30%) and Cr (60.05%), which was similar to the results of positive matrix factorization (PMF). Furthermore, DSSA could illustrate SHMs migration process from source to receptor. The uncertainty analysis further proved the distinct advantages of DSSA. The results of this research could predict pollutant enrichment and could provide new perspective for environment and public health management.", 
    "abstract": "In present work, green and efficient glycerol solvent system was coupled with pulse-probe ultrasonication for one-step extraction and preservation of anthocyanin from blueberry pomace. Under optimal conditions (40\u00a0min, 174\u00a0W, 18.6\u00a0mL/g, 20% of glycerol fraction), extraction yield was 23.07\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.09\u00a0mg C3GE/g DW. The extracted anthocyanins were characterized by UPLC-Triple-TOF/MS and 10 anthocyanins compounds were tentatively identified. Stability of anthocyanins influenced by solvents were evaluated in varying temperature, pH and light exposure conditions, demonstrating higher stability of anthocyanins in glycerol solvent system than methanol one. Furthermore, mechanism of high efficiency extraction and stability of anthocyanin using glycerol were investigated by quantum chemical calculation with molecular dynamic simulation. Larger solvent accessible surface area (127.16\u00a0nm", 
    "abstract": "A library of modified VEGFR-2 inhibitors was designed as VEGFR-2 inhibitors. Virtual screening was conducted for the hypothetical library using ", 
    "abstract": "Real-time dynamic simulation remains a significant challenge for spatiotemporal data of high dimension and resolution. In this study, we establish a transformer neural network (TNN) originally developed for natural language processing and a separate convolutional neural network (CNN) to estimate five-dimensional (5D) spatiotemporal brain-skull relative displacement resulting from impact (isotropic spatial resolution of 4 mm with temporal resolution of 1 ms). Sequential training is applied to train (N = 5184 samples) the two neural networks for estimating the complete 5D displacement across a temporal duration of 60 ms. We find that TNN slightly but consistently outperforms CNN in accuracy for both displacement and the resulting voxel-wise four-dimensional (4D) maximum principal strain (e.g., root mean squared error (RMSE) of ~1.0% vs. ~1.6%, with coefficient of determination, ", 
    "abstract": "Although current computational biology software is available and has prompted the development of enzyme-substrates simulation, they are difficult to install and inconvenient to use. This makes the time-consuming and error-prone process. By far there is still a lack of a complete tool which can provide a one-stop service for the enzyme-substrates simulation process. Hence, in this study, several computational biology software was extended development and integrated as a website toolbox named Atomevo. The Atomevo is a free web server providing a user-friendly interface for enzyme-substrates simulation: (1) protein homologous modeling; (2) parallel docking module of Autodock Vina 1.2; (3) automatic modeling builder for Gromacs molecular dynamics simulation package; and (4) Molecular Mechanics/Poisson-Boltzmann Surface Area (MMPBSA) analysis module for receptor-ligand binding affinity analysis. We officially launched the web server and provided instructions through a case for the design and simulation of Candida antarctica lipase B (CalB) fusion protein called Maltose Binding Protein-Thioredoxin A-Candida antarctica lipase B (MBP-TrxA-CalB).", 
    "abstract": "Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3\u03b2 is one of the downstream signalling molecules involved in phosphorylation of glycogen synthase, a key enzyme involved in the synthesis of glycogen from glucose. GSK-3\u03b2 regulate some of the critical processes underlying structural and functional synaptic plasticity of neurons. Down regulation or inhibition of GSK-3\u03b2 enhances long-term potentiation and cognitive functions in animal models of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A number of compounds are available to inhibit GSK-3\u03b2, however none of them are in clinical practice to treat neurodegenerative diseases. The aim of our study was to predict the molecular interaction and dynamic behaviour of naturally occurring 1,2-diphenyline ketone analogues at the adenosine triphosphate binding site of glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3\u03b2 through simulation studies. Out of all 1,2-diphenyline ketone analogues,1, 3, 5, 6-Tetrahydroxyxanthone (Rank = 1), Secalonic acid F (Rank = 2), and Trihydroxy-2-(2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylbutyl)-7-methoxy-8-(3-methyl-2-butenyl) xanthone (Rank = 3) were found to exhibit lowest docking score of -12.07, -11.49, and -11.24\u2009kcal/mol with dissociation constant of 1.37, 3.84, and 5.99\u2009nM, respectively. The molecular dynamic simulation of rank 1 and rank 3 ligands indicated stable interaction throughout the simulation and interaction analyses has shown that the presence of hydroxyl groups at C1, C3, C5, and C6 around 1,2 diphenyline ketone nucleus to influence their binding affinity at the ATP-binding site of GSK-3\u03b2. We predicted that 1,3,5,6-Tetrahydroxyxanthone and 1, 3, 6-Trihydroxy-2-(2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylbutyl)-7-methoxy-8-(3-methyl-2-butenyl) xanthone may act as a potential ligand or lead compound to inhibit GSK-3\u03b2 and also may play an important role in alleviating neurodegenerative diseases.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Biomineralization is a vital physiological process in living organisms, hence elucidating its mechanism is crucial in the optimization of controllable biomaterial preparation with hydroxyapatite and collagen, which could provide information for the design of innovative biomaterials. However, the mechanisms by which minerals and collagen interact in various ionic environments are unclear. Here, we applied molecular dynamics and free energy simulations to clarify type I collagen-mediated HAP prenucleation and simulated the physiological environment using different phosphate and carbonate protonation states. Calcium phosphate mineral formation on the type I collagen surface drastically differed among various H", 
    "abstract": "MMP-9 is a calcium-dependent zinc endopeptidase that plays a crucial role in various diseases and is a ubiquitous target for many classes of drugs. The availability of MMP-9 crystal structure in combination with aryl sulfonamide anthranilate hydroxamate inhibitor facilitates to accentuate the computer-aided screening of MMP-9 inhibitors with the presumed binding mode. In the current study, ligand-based pharmacophore modeling and 3D-QSAR analysis were performed using 67 reported MMP-9 inhibitors possessing ", 
    "abstract": "Lactoferrin is a heme-binding multifunctional glycoprotein known for iron transportation in the blood and also contributes to innate immunity. In this study, the interaction of theaflavin monogallate, a polyphenolic component of black tea, with camel milk lactoferrin was studied using various biophysical and computational techniques. Fluorescence quenching at different temperatures suggests that theaflavin monogallate interacted with lactoferrin by forming a non-fluorescent complex, ", 
    "abstract": "To overcome the problem of frequency consistency and simplify the design process of linear ultrasonic motor, a novel traveling wave linear ultrasonic motor with a ring-type stator is proposed in this paper. The combination of two orthogonal bending vibration modes with the same order is selected as the operating mode of the motor. A traveling wave along the side of the stator is utilized to drive the slider to move linearly. The stator adopts a ring symmetrical structure, which can effectively ensure that the resonance frequencies of the two vibration modes are consistent. Thus, we do not need to tune the frequencies of the two vibrations by constantly adjusting the shape of the stator or designing complex clamping parts to fix the stator without making any influence on the vibrations. Meanwhile, a three-dimensional finite element model of the motor is built. Using the model, we obtain the elliptical motion trajectories of the stator driving surface, the output performance of the motor, the sticking-slipping-separation contact characteristic between the stator and the slider and fabricate and measure a prototype of the proposed motor.", 
    "abstract": "Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2\u2009A (", 
    "abstract": "Histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC 2) of class I HDACs plays a major role in embryonic and neural developments. However, HDAC 2 overexpression triggers cell proliferation by diverse mechanisms in cancer. Over the decades, many pan and class-specific inhibitors of HDAC were discovered. Limitations such as toxicity and differential cell localization of each isoform led researchers to hypothesize that isoform selective inhibitors may be relevant to bring about desired effects. In this study, we have employed the PHASE module to develop an e-pharmacophore model and virtually screened four focused libraries of around 300,000 compounds to identify isoform selective HDAC 2 inhibitors. The compounds with phase fitness score greater than or equal to 2.4 were subjected to structure-based virtual screening with HDAC 2. Ten molecules with docking score greater than\u2009\u2009-12\u00a0kcal/mol were chosen for selectivity study, QikProp module (ADME prediction) and dG/bind energy identification. Compound 1A with the best dock score of\u2009\u2009-13.3\u00a0kcal/mol and compound 1I with highest free binding energy,\u2009\u2009-70.93\u00a0kcal/mol, were selected for molecular dynamic simulation studies (40\u00a0ns simulation). The results indicated that compound 1I may be a potent and selective HDAC 2 inhibitor. Further, in vitro and in vivo studies are necessary to validate the potency of selected lead molecule and its derivatives.", 
    "abstract": "Owing to the ability of catalase to function under oxidative stress vis-\u00e0-vis its industrial importance, the structure-function integrity of the enzyme is of prime concern. In the present study, polyols (glycerol, sorbitol, sucrose, xylitol), were evaluated for their ability to modulate structure, activity and aggregation of catalase using in vitro and in silico approaches. All polyols were found to increase catalase activity by decreasing K", 
    "abstract": "The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has affected millions of people worldwide and caused substantial socio-economic losses. Few successful vaccine candidates have been approved against SARS-CoV-2; however, their therapeutic efficacy against the mutated strains of the virus remains questionable. Furthermore, the limited supply of vaccines and promising antiviral drugs have created havoc in the present scenario. Plant-based phytochemicals (bioactive molecules) are promising because of their low side effects and high therapeutic value. In this study, we aimed to screen for suitable phytochemicals with higher therapeutic value using the two most crucial proteins of SARS-CoV-2, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and main protease (Mpro). We used computational tools such as molecular docking and steered molecular dynamics simulations to gain insights into the different types of interactions and estimated the relative binding forces between the phytochemicals and their respective targets. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report that not only involves a search for a therapeutic bioactive molecule but also sheds light on the mechanisms underlying target inhibition in terms of calculations of force and work needed to extractthe ligand from the pocket of its target. The complexes showing higher binding forces were subjected to 200 ns molecular dynamic simulations to check the stability of the ligand inside the binding pocket. Our results suggested that isoskimmiwallin and terflavin A are potential inhibitors of RdRp, whereas isoquercitrin and isoorientin are the lead molecules against Mpro. Collectively, our findings could potentially aid in the development of novel therapeutics against COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "This study shows how dynamic simulation modeling can be applied in the context of the nationwide implementation of Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to inform organizational decisions regarding the use of complex and disruptive health technologies and how these decisions affect their potential value.\nUsing the case of the nationwide implementation of WGS into clinical practice in lung cancer in the Dutch healthcare system, we developed a simulation model to show that including service delivery features across the diagnostic pathway can provide essential insight into the affordability and accessibility of care at the systems level. The model was implemented as a hybrid Agent-Based Model and Discrete-Event Simulation model in AnyLogic and included 78 hospital agents, 7 molecular tumor board agents, 1 WGS facility agent, and 5313 patient agents each year in simulation time.\nThe model included patient and provider heterogeneity, including referral patterns, capacity constraints, and diagnostic workflows. Patient preference and adoption by healthcare professionals were also modeled. The model was used to analyze a scenario in which only academic hospitals have implemented WGS. To prevent delays in the diagnostic pathway, the capacity to sequence at least 1600 biopsies yearly should be present. There is a two-fold increase in mean diagnostic pathway duration between no patients referred or all patients referred for further diagnostics.\nThe systems model can complement conventional health economic evaluations to investigate how the organization of the workflow can influence the actual use and impact of WGS. Insufficient capacity to provide WGS and referral patterns can substantially impact the duration of the diagnostic pathway and thus should be considered in the implementation of WGS.", 
    "abstract": "Nuclear hybrid energy systems (NHES) are a viable option to provide clean power by combining renewable energy sources such as wind and solar. This study analyzes two types of NHES that use small modular reactors (SMR) and wind turbines to produce clean energy and water. The first system uses freeze desalination (FD) and the second system uses reverse osmosis (RO) to produce clean water. Both systems are optimized using net present value at two case locations. The FD system can better meet the energy demand using the stored thermal energy to boost the power during peak hours, which allows less capital investment on its design compared to the RO system. However, the results from the two cases reveal that the RO system can be more economic when water price is more than $1.50/m", 
    "abstract": "By combining molecular dynamic (MD) simulation and docking techniques, we systematically investigated the recognition between linear \u03b2-(1\u00a0\u2192\u00a03)-glucan (bglc) and Dectin-1. The binding structure exhibits apparent endo-type recognition between the C-type lectin-like domain (CTLD) groove formed by Trp221, His223, Tyr228, as well as other residues around them, and the conformational patterns of triple-helix bglc. Trp221, His223, and Tyr228 play an important role in stabilizing the recognition complex through forming a simple but fixed hydrogen bond network with the C", 
    "abstract": "Herein, a simple approach was formed based on synthesizing different morphologies of ZnO and Au-ZnO as photocatalyst. In this study, ZnO and Au-ZnO were synthesized via a co-precipitation method and fully characterized via scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX). Three different ratios of Zn", 
    "abstract": "Time series-based modeling provides a fundamental understanding of process fluctuations in an anaerobic digestion process. However, such models are scarce in literature. In this work, a dynamic model was developed based on modified Hill's model using MATLAB, which can predict biomethane production with time series. This model can predict the biomethane production for both batch and continuous process, across substrates and at diverse conditions such as total solids, loading rate, and days of operation. The deviation between literature and the developed model was less than\u00a0\u00b1\u00a07.6%, which shows the accuracy and robustness of this model. Moreover, statistical analysis showed there was no significant difference between literature and simulation, verifying the null hypothesis. Finding a steady and optimized loading rate was necessary to an industrial perspective, which usually requires extensive experimental data. With the developed model, a stable and optimal methane yield generating loading rate could be identified at minimal input.", 
    "abstract": "The formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) with \u03b2-sheet-rich structure caused by abnormal aggregation of misfolded microtubule-associated protein Tau is a hallmark of tauopathies, including Alzheimer's Disease. It has been reported that acetylation, especially K174 located in the proline-rich region, can largely promote Tau aggregation. So far, the mechanism of the abnormal acetylation of Tau that affects its misfolding and aggregation is still unclear. Therefore, revealing the effect of acetylation on Tau aggregation could help elucidate the pathogenic mechanism of tauopathies. In this study, molecular dynamics simulation combined with multiple computational analytical methods were performed to reveal the effect of K174 acetylation on the spontaneous aggregation of Tau peptide ", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Janus, or two-sided, charged membranes offer promise as ionic current rectifiers. In such systems, pores consisting of two regions of opposite charge can be used to generate a current from a gradient in salinity. The efficiency of nanoscale Janus pores increases dramatically as their diameter becomes smaller. However, little is known about the underlying transport processes, particularly under experimentally accessible conditions. In this work, we examine the molecular basis for rectification in Janus nanopores using an applied electric field. Molecular simulations with explicit water and ions are used to examine the structure and dynamics of all molecular species in aqueous electrolyte solutions. For several macroscopic observables, the results of such simulations are consistent with experimental observations on asymmetric membranes. Our analysis reveals a number of previously unknown features, including a pronounced local reorientation of water molecules in the pores, and a segregation of ionic species that had not been anticipated by previously reported continuum analyses of Janus pores. Using these insights, a model is proposed for ionic current rectification in which electric leakage at the pore entrance controls net transport.", 
    "abstract": "Steel is one of the mainly used materials in the oil and gas industry. However, it is susceptible to the marine corrosion, which 20% of the total marine corrosion is caused by microbiologically influenced corrosion (MIC). The economic and environmental impacts of corrosion are significant, and it is crucial to fight against corrosion in a proper sustainability context and environmental-friendly methods. In this study, the graphene oxide/silver nanostructure (GO-Ag) inhibitory effect on the corrosion of steel in the presence of sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) was investigated, via weight loss (WL) and Tafel polarization measurements. Moreover, molecular dynamic (MD) simulations were performed to obtain a deep understanding of the corrosion inhibition effect of GO-Ag. GO-Ag showed a significant antibacterial effect at 80\u00a0ppm. Moreover, WL and Tafel polarization measurements illustrated a great inhibition efficiency, which reached up to 84% reduction of WL and 98% reduction of corrosion current density (I", 
    "abstract": "Targeted drug delivery systems are effective ways to reduce side effects and enhance the therapeutic efficacy of drugs. Metal-organic frameworks are a new class of porous materials that have been recently used as high-performance nanocarriers in medical applications, such as drug storage and delivery due to high internal surface area, high porosity, low toxicity, high payloads, controlled drug release, their exceptional biocompatibility, and biodegradability. In this study, the loading of anti-cancer drugs Temozolomide, Alendronate, and 5-Fluorouracil inside UiO-66 nanocarrier cavities at the atomic level and different concentrations of the drug were investigated using the molecular dynamics simulation method. Drug interaction energies with UiO-66, two-dimensional density map, and drug mobility in all systems were investigated. It was found that all drugs in higher concentration systems have higher loads than less concentrated systems. Among the drugs used, Temozolomide was located closer to the center of UiO-66 which indicated more negative interaction energy. Therefore, Temozolomide has a more thermodynamic tendency to load inside the UiO-66 cavities than the other studied drugs. Two-dimensional density study showed that all drugs were mainly loaded on metal centers. Temozolomide and Alendronate were loaded on inner centers, although 5-Fluorouracil showed a higher tendency to load on surface metal centers. From studying the mobility of drugs, Temozolomide was less mobile than the other two drugs due to its stronger interaction with UiO-66.", 
    "abstract": "COVID-19 is a new infectious disease caused by SARS-COV-2 virus of the coronavirus Family. The identification of drugs against this serious infection is a significant requirement due to the rapid rise in the positive cases and deaths around the world. With this concept, a molecular docking analysis for vitamins and their derivatives (28 molecules) with the active site of SARS-CoV-2 main protease was carried out. The results of molecular docking indicate that the structures with best binding energy in the binding site of the studied enzyme (lowest energy level) are observed for the compounds; Folacin, Riboflavin, and Phylloquinone oxide (Vitamin K1 oxide). A Molecular Dynamic simulation was carried out to study the binding stability for the selected vitamins with the active site of SARS-CoV-2 main protease enzyme. Molecular Dynamic shows that Phylloquinone oxide and Folacin are quite unstable in binding to SARS-CoV-2 main protease, while the Riboflavin is comparatively rigid. The higher fluctuations in Phylloquinone oxide and Folacin indicate that they may not fit very well into the binding site. As expected, the Phylloquinone oxide exhibits small number of H-bonds with protein and Folacin does not form a good interaction with protein. Riboflavin exhibits the highest number of Hydrogen bonds and forms consistent interactions with protein. Additionally, this molecule respect the conditions mentioned in Lipinski's rule and have acceptable ADMET proprieties which indicates that Riboflavin (Vitamin B2) could be interesting for the antiviral treatment of COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "Recently a technique based on the interaction between adhesion proteins extracted from Streptococcus pyogenes, known as SpyRing, has been widely used to improve the thermal resilience of enzymes, the assembly of biostructures, cancer cell recognition and other fields. It was believed that the covalent cyclization of protein skeleton caused by SpyRing reduces the conformational entropy of biological structure and improves its rigidity, thus improving the thermal resilience of the target enzyme. However, the effects of SpyTag/ SpyCatcher interaction with this enzyme are poorly understood, and their regulation of enzyme properties remains unclear. Here, for simplicity, we took the single domain enzyme lichenase from Bacillus subtilis 168 as an example, studied the interface interactions in the SpyRing by molecular dynamics simulations, and examined the effects of the changes of electrostatic interaction and van der Waals interaction on the thermal resilience of target enzyme. The simulations showed that the interface between SpyTag/SpyCatcher and the target enzyme is different from that found by geometric matching method and highlighted key mutations at the interface that might have effect on the thermal resilience of the enzyme. Our calculations highlighted interfacial interactions between enzyme and SpyTag/SpyCatcher, which might be useful in rational designs of the SpyRing.", 
    "abstract": "Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths in the world among both men and women. Several studies in the literature report that overexpression and mutation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) are implicated in the pathogenesis of some lung cancers. Nimotuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) that inhibits EGF binding because it binds to the extracellular domain of the EGFR. Nimotuzumab requires bivalent binding for stable attachment to cellular surface, which leads to nimotuzumab selectively binding to cells that express mAbs of moderate to high EGFR levels, and this could explain its low toxicity. This property has an advantage for development of nimotuzumab as a therapeutic and diagnostic agent. Monoclonal antibodies are large in size (150 kDa), thus penetrating slowly and residing in the blood for extended periods of time (from days to weeks); their use in imaging studies can result in low signal-to-background ratios and poor image quality. A reduction in the size of the immunoglobulin molecule has also been proposed as a means for increasing tumor penetration by mAbs. Nevertheless, it is known that the penetration of mAb into tumor cell is slow, due to its high molecular weight. Therefore, mAb is not very attractive to be used for imaging diagnostic purpose because of its kinetics and potential to elicit antibody response. The objective of this research was to study the homology modeling of a simpler functional molecule based on nimotuzumab, which consists of 2 antigen-binding fragments (Fab), namely, F(ab')", 
    "abstract": "Due to the rapid depletion of water resources, more interest is paid for the efficient desalination process in recent years. MoS", 
    "abstract": "Silicon carbide (SiC) is widely used as the substrate for high power electronic devices as well as susceptors for microwave (MW) heating. The dynamics of microwave interaction with SiC is not fully understood, especially at the material boundaries. In this paper, we used the molecular dynamics simulation method to study the temperature evolution during the microwave absorption of SiC under various amplitudes and frequencies of the microwave electric field. Directional MW heating of a SiC crystal slab bounded by surfaces along [100] crystallographic direction shows significantly faster melting when the field is applied parallel to the surface compared to when applied perpendicular.", 
    "abstract": "The goal of this study was to dynamically model next-wave scenarios to observe the impact of different lockdown measures on the infection rates (IR) and mortality for two different prototype countries, mimicking the 1st year of the COVID-19 pandemic in Europe.\nA dynamic simulation SIRD model was designed to assess the effectiveness of policy measures on four next-wave scenarios, each preceded by two different lockdowns. The four scenarios were (1) no-measures, (2) uniform measures, (3) differential measures based on isolating > 60 years of age group, and (4) differential measures with additional contact reduction measures for the 20-60 years of age group. The dynamic simulation model was prepared for two prototype European countries, Northwestern (NW) and Southern (S) country. Both prototype countries were characterized based on age composition and contact matrix.\nThe results show that the outcomes of the next-wave scenarios depend on number of infections of previous lockdowns. All scenarios reduce the incremental deaths compared with a no-measures scenario. Differential measures show lower number of deaths despite an increase of infections. Additionally, prototype S shows overall more deaths compared with prototype NW due to a higher share of older citizens.\nThis study shows that differential measures are a worthwhile option for controlling the COVID-19 epidemic. This may also be the case in situations where relevant parts of the population have taken up vaccination. Additionally, the effectiveness of interventions strongly depends on the number of previously infected individuals. The results of this study may be useful when planning and forecasting the impact of non-pharmacological interventions and vaccination campaigns.", 
    "abstract": "The present research addressed the influence of polyamine (putrescine) on the compound as well as function of lysozyme; accordingly, UV- Visible, fluorescence spectroscopy and simulation method were applied to fulfill this goal. Lysozyme's structural variability was examined at various putrescine \u200cconcentrations; also, the putrescine binding to lysozyme was addressed using spectrofluorescence, circular dichroism (CD) and UV-Vis measurements. The obtained results indicated that with raising the putrescine concentration, the intrinsic quenching fluorescence of lysozyme was decreased based on the static mechanism. Analysis of thermodynamic parameters also indicated that van der Waals as well as hydrogen bond forces served a fundamental role in determining the resulting stability; this was in agreement with modeling studies. Measurement of UV absorption spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy, and circular dichroism spectroscopy also demonstrated that lysozyme's second and tertiary structures were altered in a putrescine concentration-dependent manner. Putrescine inhibited lysozyme's enzymatic activity, displaying its affinity with the lysozyme's active site. Further, molecular simulation conducted revealed that putrescine could have spontaneous binding to lysozyme, changing its structure, thus further emphasizing the experimental results.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Sub-Saharan Africa is profoundly challenged with African Animal Trypanosomiasis and the available trypanocides are faced with drawbacks, necessitating the search for novel agents. Herein, the chemotherapeutic potential of phloroglucinol on ", 
    "abstract": "Understanding the atomic diffusion features in metallic material is significant to explain the diffusion-controlled physical processes. In this paper, using electromigration experiments and molecular dynamic (MD) simulations, we investigate the effects of grain size and temperature on the self-diffusion of polycrystalline aluminium (Al). The mass transport due to electromigration are accelerated by increasing temperature and decreasing grain size. Magnitudes of effective diffusivity (", 
    "abstract": "According to the literature review, microbial degradation of polyethylene terephthalate by PETases has been detected effective and eco-friendly. However, the number of microorganisms capable of such feats is limited with some undesirable bioprospecting results. BTA-hydrolase has been already reported capable of degrading polyethylene terephthalate. Therefore, mutation by in silico site-directed mutagenesis means to introduce current isomer of PETase for polyethylene terephthalate degradative capability as a better approach to resolve this issue. This study aimed to use in silico site-directed mutagenesis to convert a carboxylesterase from ", 
    "abstract": "Under the current rapid urbanization and industrialization in China, competition for production, living, and ecological spaces is becoming fierce. Improving production-living-ecological spaces (PLESs) has become a core issue in China's land-space development strategy. In this study, the multiple linear logistic regression (MLLR)-multicriteria evaluation (MCE)-cellular automata (CA)-Markov hybrid model was used to predict the land-use pattern for 2030, and the spatial conflict model was established based on landscape indices to measure the evolution characteristics of spatial conflicts. The results demonstrated that, from 2005 to 2030, the production-ecological space (PES) will have front-runner status in Wuhan, followed by the ecological-production space (EPS). In 2005-2015, the living-production space (LPS) and PES occupied large amounts of EPS and ecological space (ES), especially in the main urban areas and near rivers, and the spatial transformation was the most significant. By 2030, there will be less transformation of each space type, but the conversion amount of LPS will still be relatively large. With the passage of time, the LPS will increase, the EPS will decrease slightly, and the ES will fluctuate. During the period 2005-2030, the conflict level will change gradually from seriously out of control to controllable, and the hot spot of PLES will show a scattering distribution. The cold spot area will be distributed mainly in the southern part of Wuhan, which will be expanded greatly by 2030. Our research indicates that analyzing the reasonable utilization of PLES is of great value by identifying spatial conflicts; differentiated sustainable development strategies should be formulated according to the future spatial and temporal patterns of PLES, which can help in scientific judgments on the spatial matching of land use and provide early warnings of spatial conflicts. Integr Environ Assess Manag 2022;18:1578-1596. \u00a9 2021 SETAC.", 
    "abstract": "Virgin coconut oil is mostly made up of saturated fatty acids in which approximately 72% are medium chain triglycerides. Medium chain triglycerides can be digested into medium chain fatty acids and medium chain monoglycerides which are bioactive components. Therefore, it is very important to study the in-silico ability of some Virgin coconut oil derivatives, namely, medium chain fatty acids and medium chain monoglycerides to inhibit Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) protein for prevention of excessive inflammatory response.\nPharmacophore study displayed monolaurin with two hydrogen bond donor, three hydrogen bond acceptor and five hydrophobic interactions, while lauric acid presented two hydrogen bond acceptor, five hydrophobic interactions and a negative ion interaction. Molecular docking underlined the ability of monolaurin in the inhibition of COX-2 protein which causes inflammatory action with a decent result of energy binding affinity of -\u00a07.58\u00a0kcal/mol and 15 interactions out of which 3 are strong hydrogen bond with TYR385 (3.00\u00a0\u00c5), PHE529 (2.77\u00a0\u00c5), and GLY533 (3.10\u00a0\u00c5) residues of the protein. Monolaurin was employed as hydrogen bond acceptor to the side of residue TYR385 of COX-2 protein with an occupancy of 67.03% and was observed to be long-living during the entire 1000 frames of the molecular dynamic simulation. The analysis of RMSD score of the Monolaurin-COX-2 complex backbone was calculated to be low (1.137 \nThis can be concluded from the results obtained that the monolaurin has strong interactions with COX-2 protein to disrupt its function due to significant hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions with amino acid residues present in the target protein's active site. These results displayed a very significant anti-inflammatory potential of monolaurin and a new promising drug candidates as anti-inflammatory agent.", 
    "abstract": "Breast cancer is one of the most severe problems, and it is the primary cause of cancer-related death in females worldwide. The adverse effects and therapeutic resistance development are among the most potent clinical issues for potent medications for breast cancer treatment. The eugenol molecules have a significant affinity for breast cancer receptors. The aim of the study has been on the eugenol compounds, which has potent actions on Er\u03b1, PR, EGFR, CDK2, mTOR, ERBB2, c-Src, HSP90, and chemokines receptors inhibition. Initially, the drug-likeness property was examined to evaluate the anti-breast cancer activity by applying Lipinski's rule of five on 120 eugenol molecules. Further, structure-based virtual screening was performed via molecular docking, as protein-like interactions play a vital role in drug development. The 3D structure of the receptors has been acquired from the protein data bank and is docked with 87 3D PubChem and ZINC structures of eugenol compounds, and five FDA-approved anti-cancer drugs using AutoDock Vina. Then, the compounds were subjected to three replica molecular dynamic simulations run of 100\u00a0ns per system. The results were evaluated using root mean square deviation (RMSD), root mean square fluctuation (RMSF), and protein-ligand interactions to indicate protein-ligand complex stability. The results confirm that Eugenol cinnamaldehyde has the best docking score for breast cancer, followed by Aspirin eugenol ester and 4-Allyl-2-methoxyphenyl cinnamate. From the results obtained from\u00a0in silico\u00a0studies, we propose that the selected eugenols can be further investigated and evaluated for further lead optimization and drug development.", 
    "abstract": "Dynamic 3-dimensional (3D) simulation of hip impingement enables better understanding of complex hip deformities in young adult patients with femoroacetabular impingement (FAI).\u00a0Deep learning algorithms may improve magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) segmentation.\n(1) To evaluate the accuracy of 3D models created using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for fully automatic MRI bone segmentation of the hip joint, (2) to correlate hip range of motion (ROM) between manual and automatic segmentation, and (3) to compare location of hip impingement in 3D models created using automatic bone segmentation in patients with FAI.\nCohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 3.\nThe authors retrospectively reviewed 31 hip MRI scans from 26 symptomatic patients (mean age, 27 years) with hip pain due to FAI. All patients had matched computed tomography (CT) and MRI scans of the pelvis and the knee. CT- and MRI-based osseous 3D models of the hip joint of the same patients were compared (MRI: T1 volumetric interpolated breath-hold examination high-resolution sequence; 0.8 mm\nThe difference between the CT- and MRI-based 3D models was <1 mm, and the difference between fully automatic and manual segmentation of MRI-based 3D models was <1 mm. The correlation of automatic and manual MRI-based 3D models was excellent and significant for impingement-free ROM (\nCNN can potentially be used in clinical practice to provide rapid and accurate 3D MRI hip joint models for young patients. The created models can be used for simulation of impingement during diagnosis of intra- and extra-articular hip impingement to enable radiation-free and patient-specific surgical planning for hip arthroscopy and open hip preservation surgery.", 
    "abstract": "The unavailability of a suitable treatment for human Hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection necessitate the development of anti HEV drugs. The HEV papain-like cysteine proteases (HEV PCP) is a crucial target to prevent viral replication and progression. E64 is a known HEV PCP inhibitor; however, its molecular mechanism of inhibition is not yet known. Since the crystal structure of HEV PCP is not available, the primary focuses of the present study was to refine the predicted HEV PCP structural model by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. Further, we performed a 200\u2009ns MD simulation to understand the structural complexity of HEV PCP and the effect of E64 binding with HEV PCP. The E64 binding with active site residues Gln48, Thr51, Gln55, Cys52, Ser81, Gln 98, Cys 132, Arg158, His159, Asn 160 and Ala96 leads to reduced fluctuations in the residue at N-terminal (18-41) that include the CHC motif (26-28). However, most of the other non interacting residues, including the inter-domain linker region (46-87), showed increased fluctuations in the HEV PCP-E64 complex. The residue Asp21 and Ala96 are involved in the formation of interdomain interactions in the HEV PCP apo enzyme. While in the PCP-E64 complex, E64 binds to Ala96 and creates a steric hindrance to prevent interdomain interactions. Thus, the E64 binding reduces interdomain interactions and restrict domain movements in the HEV PCP-E64 complex. This information will be important for the chemically designing more effective derivatives of E64 developing HEV PCP specific inhibitors.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "To comprehensively elaborate the formation characteristics of hydration films on 1/3 coking coal molecule, this paper reports the construction of a realistic simplified model for calculations of electrostatic potentials on the coal molecular surface to foresee the major immersion locations. On this basis, interactions at the interface of coal molecules with different numbers of water molecules and their effects on each functional group of coal molecules were investigated. Using the scanning electron microscopy experiment, changes in the coal matrix before and after water leaching were compared and analyzed by fractal dimension calculations. Hydration characteristics of coal were described from a combined macroscopic and microscopic perspective. The results showed that both positive and negative electrostatic potential of coal molecules occurred near the O-containing functional groups. The hydroxyl group's electrostatic potential (-OH) rose, resulting in higher electrostatic potential in coal-water molecules and providing many immersion sites. Deficiency in water molecules led to the complete immersion of water molecules. The interface of coal molecules could not be covered entirely, which led to the low number of active sites and ", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an ongoing global health emergency that has caused tremendous stress and loss of life worldwide. The viral spike glycoprotein is a critical molecule mediating transmission of SARS-CoV-2 by interacting with human ACE2. However, through the course of the pandemics, there has not been a thorough analysis of the spike protein mutations, and on how these mutants influence the transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Besides, cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection among pets and wild animals have been reported, so the susceptibility of these animals requires great attention to investigate, as they may also link to the renewed question of a possible intermediate host for SARS-CoV-2 before it was transmitted to humans. With over 226,000 SARS-CoV-2 sequences obtained, we found 1573 missense mutations in the spike gene, and 226 of them were within the receptor-binding domain (RBD) region that directly interacts with human ACE2. Modeling the interactions between SARS-CoV-2 spike mutants and ACE2 molecules showed that most of the 74 missense mutations in the RBD region of the interaction interface had little impact on spike binding to ACE2, whereas several within the spike RBD increased the binding affinity toward human ACE2 thus making the virus likely more contagious. On the other hand, modeling the interactions between animal ACE2 molecules and SARS-CoV-2 spike revealed that many pets and wild animals' ACE2 had a variable binding ability. Particularly, ACE2 of bamboo rat had stronger binding to SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, whereas that of mole, vole, Mus pahari, palm civet, and pangolin had a weaker binding compared to human ACE2. Our results provide structural insights into the impact on interactions of the SARS-CoV-2 spike mutants to human ACE2, and shed light on SARS-CoV-2 transmission in pets and wild animals, and possible clues to the intermediate host(s) for SARS-CoV-2.", 
    "abstract": "The title compound 5-isoquinolinesulfonic acid (5IQSA) is characterized using the FT-IR, FT-Raman, NMR and UV-Vis spectra. The optimized molecular geometry, vibrational assignments, infrared intensities and Raman scattering are precisely calculated using Density Functional Theory (DFT) with the B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) basis set. The ", 
    "abstract": "Stable encapsulation of medically active compounds can lead to longer storage life and facilitate the slow-release mechanism. In this work, the dynamic and molecular interactions between plumbagin molecule with \u03b2-cyclodextrin (BCD) and its two derivatives, which are dimethyl-\u03b2-cyclodextrin (MBCD), and 2-", 
    "abstract": "Steroidal sapogenins (SS) are structural analogues of steroidal drugs, which are frequently used for the treatment of several diseases including reproductive, malignancies, neurological, and inflammation-related diseases. The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a nuclear receptor that regulates development, metabolism, and inflammation, in response to steroidal ligands. Therefore, GR is considered as a potential therapeutic target for steroidal agents to the treatment of inflammation-related diseases. We hypothesized that SS may act as an agonist for GR due to structural similarity with corticosteroids. In this study, we carried out ", 
    "abstract": "The present study aimed to predict the binding potential of carbon nanotube and nano fullerene towards multiple targets of SARS-CoV-2. Based on the virulent functions, the spike glycoprotein, RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, main protease, papain-like protease, and RNA binding domain of the nucleocapsid proteins of SARS-CoV-2 were prioritized as the molecular targets and their three-dimensional (3D) structures were retrieved from the Protein Data Bank. The 3D structures of carbon nanotubes and nano-fullerene were computationally modeled, and the binding potential of these nanoparticles to the selected molecular targets was predicted by molecular docking and molecular dynamic (MD) simulations. The drug-likeness and pharmacokinetic features of the lead molecules were computationally predicted. The current study suggested that carbon fullerene and nanotube demonstrated significant binding towards the prioritized multi-targets of SARS-CoV-2. Interestingly, carbon nanotube showed better interaction with these targets when compared to carbon fullerene. MD simulation studies clearly showed that the interaction of nanoparticles and selected targets possessed stability and conformational changes. This study revealed that carbon nanotubes and fullerene are probably used as effectual binders to multiple targets of SARS-CoV-2, and the study offers insights into the experimental validation and highlights the relevance of utilizing carbon nanomaterials as a therapeutic remedy against COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "African trypanosomiasis is caused by ", 
    "abstract": "Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is the most attractive target for drug research in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). There have been three generation drugs developed to treat of NSCLC. The third-generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) Rociletinib and Osimertinib (AZD9291) achieved remarkable clinical efficacy. However, due to the inhibitory activity against the wild-type EGFR, the side effect of associated skin rash and gastrointestinal toxicity appeared. Thus, there is still an urgent need to develop novel inhibitors with potent inhibitory activity and high selectivity for T790M-containing EGFR over EGFR", 
    "abstract": "In this study, the interaction between human serum albumin (HSA), which is the key bio-distributor of exogenous and endogenous compounds in the human bloodstream, and HM61713 (Olmutinib; OMB), which is used as an anticancer drug, is examined by multiple spectroscopic techniques (steady-state fluorescence, UV spectrophotometry, synchronous, and 3\u2009D fluorescence) combined with molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation investigations. The fluorescence results clearly demonstrated quenching in HSA fluorescence in the existence of OMB indicating the formation of complex and have also shown that the interaction is static. Fluorescence spectroscopy was used to obtain the binding constant values that revealed a strong interaction between the HSA and OMB at 298\u2009K with a binding constant of 7.39x10", 
    "abstract": "Voltage-dependent anion channel-l (VDAC-1) can bind with plasminogen Kringle 5 as the cell surface receptor and induce cell apoptosis, but the detailed information of binding is not clear yet. Thus, the mutual recognition and binding were investigated here utilizing frontal affinity chromatography, surface plasma resonance, mutation analysis combining molecular dynamics simulation. The results showed that Kringle 5 binds with VDAC-1 in equimolar driven mainly by electrostatic force, with 15 amino acid residues participating in Kringle 5 and 21 in VDAC-1. The observed conformational changes indicated the automatic structure regulation providing these two proteins suitable conformations and spatial surroundings for the tighter and stabler binding. Moreover, Glu29 in Kringle 5 was speculated as the key residue maintaining the largest energy contribution. Therefore, this work provided precise information for the recognition and binding of Kringle 5 with VDAC-1 that is valuable for the corresponding treatment of tumours or other angiogenic diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) is a promising target for Type II diabetes, obesity, and cancer therapeutics. However, capturing selectivity over T cell protein tyrosine phosphatase (TCPTP) is key to PTP1B inhibitor discovery. Current studies demonstrate that the phosphotyrosine (pTyr) binding site confers selectivity to inhibitors. To identify novel selective inhibitors of PTP1B, drugs in the DrugBank were docked into the active and pTyr site using virtual docking tools. The most suitable drugs were selected based on their docking scores, similarity, and visual results before molecular dynamic simulations were performed. A combination of virtual screening and molecular dynamic simulation approaches indicated that five drugs (DB03558, DB05123, DB03310, DB05446, DB03530) targeting the active and second pTyr binding site of PTP1B could be potential selective inhibitors. This study showed that the hit drugs (experimental, research, and approved) could serve as potential selectivity PTP1B inhibitors and as useful treatments for diabetes and cancer. The hit drugs can be experimentally validated via in vitro molecular testing and in vivo animal testing; alternatively, they can be included in ongoing clinical trials. In addition, more effective molecules can be designed by derivatizing these drugs.", 
    "abstract": "COVID-19 (Coronavirus disease of 2019) pandemic is one of the largest health threats the planet has faced in recent decades. Efforts are being continuously made to design a viable drug or a vaccine. Several natural and synthetic molecules are under study for their potency to inhibit viral replication. In order to emphasize the importance of microbial-based natural components in antiviral drug discovery, an attempt has been made through this study to find potential inhibitors for SARS-CoV-2 Papain-Like protease (PLpro) molecule from microbial sources. PLpro, with its multifunctional roles like viral polypeptide proteolysis and suppression of the host's innate immune response, is acting as a potential drug target. The X-ray crystal structure of PLpro and ligand molecules were retrieved from the protein structure database and Npatlas database, respectively. The molecules were screened based on drug likeliness and the pharmacophore model created in reference to a known potent PLpro inhibitor GRL0617. Totally 3272 molecules have undergone the docking process and the complexes of top hits were subjected to 100\u2009ns molecular dynamic simulation. The results showed that Holyrine B, Dihydroarcyriarubin C, Baraphenazine C and 3-hydroxy-3'-N-acetylholyrine A had formed a stable complex in the active site of the PLpro with significant interaction efficiency. Earlier studies showed that Holyrine B could also be a possible inhibitor of the Main protease of SARS-CoV-2, which increases its significance in the process of COVID-19 drug development. In conclusion, these microbial compounds can be considered as possible SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors for further in\u00a0vitro studies. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "p21-Activated kinase 1 (PAK1) is positioned at the nexus of several oncogenic signaling pathways. Currently, there are no approved inhibitors for disabling the transfer of phosphate in the active site directly, as they are limited by lower affinity, and poor kinase selectivity. In this work, a repurposing study utilizing FDA-approved drugs from the DrugBank database was pursued with an initial selection of 27 molecules out of \u223c2162 drug molecules, based on their docking energies and molecular interaction patterns. From the molecules that were considered for WaterMap analysis, seven molecules, namely, Mitoxantrone, Labetalol, Acalabrutinib, Sacubitril, Flubendazole, Trazodone, and Niraparib, ascertained the ability to overlap with high-energy hydration sites. Considering many other displaced unfavorable water molecules, only Acalabrutinib, Flubendazole, and Trazodone molecules highlighted their prominence in terms of binding affinity gains through \u0394\u0394", 
    "abstract": "Gear dynamics analysis based on time-varying meshing stiffness (TMS) is an important means to understand the gear fault mechanism. Based on Jones bearing theory, a bearing statics model was established and introduced into a gear system. The lateral-torsion coupling vibration model of the gear shaft was built by using a Timoshenko beam element. The lumped parameter method was used to build the dynamic model of a gear pair. The dynamic model of a spur gear system was formed by integrating the component model mentioned above. The influence of rectangular and elliptical spalling on TMS was analyzed by the potential energy method (PEM). The fault feature of tooth spalling was studied by dynamic simulation and verified by experiments. It is found that the gear system will produce a periodic shock response owing to the periodic change of the number of meshing gear teeth. Due to the contact loss and the decrease of TMS, a stronger shock response will be generated when the spalling area is engaged. In the spectrum, some sidebands will appear in the resonance region. The results can provide a theoretical guide for the health monitoring and diagnosis of gear systems.", 
    "abstract": "In the present work, initial stage carbonization of \u03b3-Fe(100) surface in C", 
    "abstract": "Due to the importance of synthesis gas's entire conversion to methanol, the separation of methanol from unconverted synthesis gas is an industrial challenge. In this work, the influence of temperature, guest molecules concentrations (methanol and ethanol), and acid site density (Si/Al) of zeolites on the diffusion of methanol and ethanol, pure and binary mixture (80% methanol and 20% ethanol) in silicalite-1 and HZSM-5 (Si/Al\u00a0=\u00a047 and 23) were studied by using of the COMPASS force-field molecular dynamics method. Also, the adsorption of pure methanol and ethanol and binary mixture through these zeolites has been studied by using the Grand Canonical Monte Carlo (GCMC) method. The calculated adsorption rate and isosteric heat of adsorption for ethanol are lower and higher than methanol, respectively. The results of the binary mixture show that HZSM-5 (Si/Al\u00a0=\u00a023) has the lowest adsorption selectivity and most diffusion selectivity. The calculated diffusion coefficients of methanol and ethanol guest molecules decreased with rising guest molecule concentration and Si/Al-ratios. The effect of both agents was investigated by analysis of mean square displacement (MSD) and RDF diagram.", 
    "abstract": "We present an automatized workflow which, starting from molecular dynamics simulations, identifies reaction events, filters them, and prepares them for accurate quantum chemical calculations using, for example, Density Functional Theory (DFT) or Coupled Cluster methods. The capabilities of the automatized workflow are demonstrated by the example of simulations for the combustion of some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). It is shown how key elementary reaction candidates are filtered out of a much larger set of redundant reactions and refined further. The molecular species in question are optimized using DFT and reaction energies, barrier heights, and reaction rates are calculated. The setup is general enough to include at this stage configurational sampling, which can be exploited in the future. Using the introduced machinery, we investigate how the observed reaction types depend on the gas atmosphere used in the molecular dynamics simulation. For the re-optimization on the DFT level, we show how the additional information needed to switch from reactive force-field to electronic structure calculations can be filled in and study how well ReaxFF and DFT agree with each other and shine light on the perspective of using more accurate semi-empirical methods in the MD simulation.", 
    "abstract": "Pharmacophore modelling studies have been performed for a series of 2,4-disubstituted-pyrimidines derivatives as EGFR L858R/T790M tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The high scoring AARR.15 hypothesis was selected as the best pharmacophore model with the highest survival score of 3.436 having two hydrogen bond acceptors and two aromatic ring features. Pharmacophore-based virtual screening followed by structure-based yielded the six molecules (ZINC17013227, ZINC17013215, ZINC9573324, ZINC9573445, ZINC24023331 and ZINC17013503) from the ZINC database with significant in silico predicted activity and strong binding affinity towords the EGFR L858R/T790M tyrosine kinase. In silico toxicity and cytochrome profiling indicates that all the 06 virtually screened compounds were substrate/inhibitors of the CYP-3A4 metabolizing enzyme and were non-carcinogenic and devoid of Ames mutagenesis. Density functional theory (DFT) and molecular dynamic (MD) simulation further validated the obtained hits.\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-021-00113-x.", 
    "abstract": "The overexpression of cyclin D1 and cyclin E due to their oncogenic potential and amplification has been associated with a higher mortality rate in many cancers. The deguelin is a natural compound, has shown promising anti-cancer activity by directly binding cyclin D1 and cyclin E and thus suppressing its function. The C7a atomic position of deguelin structure contains a proton that generates stabilized radical, as a result, decomposed deguelin reduces its structural stability and significantly decreases its biological activity. To design deguelin derivatives with the reduced potential side effect, series of B, C-ring truncated derivatives were investigated as cyclin D1 and cyclin E inhibitors. R-group-based enumeration was implemented in the deguelin scaffold using the R-group enumeration module of Schr\u00f6dinger. Drug-Like filters like, REOS and PAINs series were applied to the enumerated compound library to remove compounds containing reactive functional groups. Further, screened compounds were docked within the ligand-binding cavity of cyclin D1 and cyclin E crystal structure, using Glide SP and XP protocol to obtain docking poses. Enrichment calculations were done using Schr\u00d6dinger software, with 1000 decoy compounds (from DUD.E database) and 60 compounds (XP best poses) along with deguelin, to validate the docking protocol. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve indicates R", 
    "abstract": "The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a cellular organelle responsible for the folding of proteins. When protein folding demand exceeds the folding capacity, cells trigger ER stress. ER-oxidoreductase 1\u03b1 (ERO1\u03b1) is an ER stress component that controls oxidative folding protein. Upregulation of ERO1\u03b1 was reported in distinct types of cancer including breast cancer and colon cancer. It was reported that deletion of ERO1 gene compromised cancer progression and cell proliferation in colon cancer. Thereby, ERO1\u03b1 inhibition might be a clinically promising anti-cancer therapeutic target. In the present study, we conducted a virtual screening of 6,000 natural-product molecules obtained from Zinc database using a multistep docking approach with a crystal structure of human ERO1\u03b1. Our analyses from high throughput virtual screening revealed the top-ranked scores of 3000 molecules with glide scores of less than -4.0\u2009kcal/mol. These molecules were further advanced to standard precision (SP) docking. The top 300 molecules of SP docking with glide scores \u2264\u2009-7.5\u2009kcal/mol were chosen to undergo extra precision (XP) docking. Around 40 molecules that have conserved interactions with the binding site of ERO1\u03b1 were ranked by the XP docking. Based on visual inspection, seven-candidate molecules that have high binding affinity scores and more molecular interactions were shortlisted. The dynamic stability of binding between the candidate molecules and ERO1\u03b1 was characterized using 100 nanoseconds molecular dynamics simulation method. Two candidates exhibited strong and stable binding complexes with ERO1\u03b1. Collectively, these findings suggest that the identified molecules may serve as potential anti-cancer lead molecules subjected to further experimental validation. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "The unprecedented pandemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is threatening global health. SARS-CoV-2 has caused severe disease with significant mortality since December 2019. The enzyme chymotrypsin-like protease (3CLpro) or main protease (M", 
    "abstract": "Since the beginning of the coronavirus 19 (COVID-19) pandemic in late 2019, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has been evolving through the acquisition of genomic mutations, leading to the emergence of multiple variants of concern (VOCs) and variants of interest (VOIs). Currently, four VOCs (Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Gamma) and seven VOIs (Epsilon, Zeta, Eta, Theta, Iota, Kappa, and Lambda) of SARS-CoV-2 have been identified in worldwide circulation. Here, we investigated the interactions of the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of five SARS-CoV-2 variants with the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor in host cells, to determine the extent of molecular divergence and the impact of mutation, using protein-protein docking and dynamics simulation approaches. Along with the wild-type (WT) SARS-CoV-2, this study included the Brazilian (BR/lineage P.1/Gamma), Indian (IN/lineage B.1.617/Delta), South African (SA/lineage B.1.351/Beta), United Kingdom (UK/lineage B.1.1.7/Alpha), and United States (US/lineage B.1.429/Epsilon) variants. The protein-protein docking and dynamics simulation studies revealed that these point mutations considerably affected the structural behavior of the spike (S) protein compared to the WT, which also affected the binding of RBD with hACE2 at the respective sites. Additional experimental studies are required to determine whether these effects have an influence on drug-S protein binding and its potential therapeutic effect.", 
    "abstract": "Colonization of the water column by animals occurred gradually during the early Palaeozoic. However, the morphological and functional changes that took place during this colonization are poorly understood. The fossil record provides clear evidence of animals that were well adapted for swimming near the seafloor or in the open ocean, but recognising transitional forms is more problematic. Trilobites are a good model to explore the colonization of marine ecosystems. Here, we use computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to test between competing functional hypotheses in the Ordovician trilobite Placoparia. The CFD simulations exhibits hydrodynamics that promote detachment from the seafloor but also promote return to the seafloor following detachment, this is compatible with hopping locomotion. The results suggest that Placopara was not able to swim, but its hydrodynamics allowed it to hop long distances. This is consistent with the fossil record, as some ichnofossils show evidence of hopping. This type of locomotion could be useful to avoid predators as an escape mechanism. In addition, CFD simulation shows how the morphology of Placoparia is adapted to protect anterior appendices of the trunk and generate a ventral vortex that send food particles directly to the trilobite mouth. Adaptations in Placoparia allowed the first steps to evolved a new ecological habitat and consequently nektonization during the GOBE.", 
    "abstract": "Groove-deepening trochleoplasty is performed to restore patellar stability by increasing the lateral constraint applied to the patella by the trochlear groove. Multibody dynamic simulation of knee function was used to characterize the influence of groove-deepening trochleoplasty on patellar tracking and patellofemoral contact pressures. Computational models were created to represent seven knees with trochlear dysplasia, indicated by a flat trochlear groove and supratrochlear spur. The models were manipulated to remove the spur and deepen the trochlear groove to represent the average shape following a trochleoplasty. Knee squatting was simulated for the preoperative and postoperative conditions. Statistically significant (p\u2009<\u20090.05) differences in output parameters were identified with repeated measures comparisons at every 5\u00b0 of knee flexion. Trochleoplasty significantly decreased lateral patellar tracking, particularly at low knee flexion angles. Trochleoplasty decreased the peak lateral shift of the patella (bisect offset index) with the knee extended from 0.87\u2009\u00b1\u20090.14 to 0.75\u2009\u00b1\u20090.12. Trochleoplasty also significantly decreased the contact area and increased the maximum contact pressure at multiple flexion angles. Trochleoplasty decreased the average contact area by approximately 10% in mid-flexion, with a corresponding increase in the average maximum contact pressure of 13%-23%. Decreased contact area and increased contact pressures are related to altered patellofemoral congruity due to reshaping the femur without a corresponding change to the patella. Clinical significance: The results indicate groove-deepening trochleoplasty decreases lateral patellar maltracking, reducing the risk of patellar dislocations, but can elevate patellofemoral contact pressures, which could contribute to long-term degradation of cartilage.", 
    "abstract": "Retrospective analyses of interventions to epidemics, in which the effectiveness of strategies implemented are compared to hypothetical alternatives, are valuable for performing the cost-benefit calculations necessary to optimize infection countermeasures. SIR (susceptible-infected-removed) models are useful in this regard but are limited by the challenge of deciding how and when to update the numerous parameters as the epidemic changes in response to population behaviors. Behaviors of particular interest include facemask adoption (at various levels) and social distancing. We present a method that uses a \"dynamic spread function\" to systematically capture the continuous variation in the population behavior and the gradual change in infection evolution, resulting from interventions. No parameter updates are made by the user. We use the tool to quantify the reduction in infection rate realizable from the population of New York City adopting different facemask strategies during COVID-19. Assuming a baseline facemask of 67% filtration efficiency, calculations show that increasing the efficiency to 80% could have reduced the roughly 5000 new infections per day occurring at the peak of the epidemic to around 4000. Population behavior that may not be varied as part of the retrospective analysis, such as social distancing in a facemask analysis, are automatically captured as part of the calibration of the dynamic spread function.", 
    "abstract": "This paper reports the synthesis, Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitory (NNRTIs) activity and computational studies of 2-((4-chloro-2-subtitutedphenoxy) methyl)-4-(furan-2-ylmethylene)-1-substituted Pyridine/-pyrimidine-1H-imidazol-5(4H)-ones.\nThe imidazol-5-one analogs were synthesized by conventional method and characterized by FT-IR, NMR and mass spectral data. All compounds were evaluated for in-vitro NNRTI activity by using reverse transcriptase (RT) assay kit (Roche). The in-silico docking studies were conducted on RT enzyme to investigate binding site interactions of synthesized compounds. The MMGBSA method was also used to calculate the binding free energy between the inhibitors and RT enzyme. The MD simulation was further performed for the apo form of the RT enzyme and docked complex of compound A6-RT enzyme to better understand the stability of the protein-ligand complex.\nThe bioactivity analysis revealed that most of the synthesized compounds showed significant inhibitory activity against RT enzyme and the IC50 value was found to be in the range of 1.76-3.88 \u03bcM. The computational studies suggest that the docked compounds form the H-bonding with amino acid residue Lys101 and hydrophobic interactions with amino acid residues Tyr188, Tyr181, Trp229, and Tyr318, which act as the primary driving forces for protein-ligand interaction.\nThe reported imidazol-5-one analogs can act as lead for further development of prospective RT inhibitors.", 
    "abstract": "Sorcin (SOluble Resistance-related Calcium bInding proteiN) is a calcium binding protein that plays a key role in multidrug resistance (MDR) in human cancers. This study aimed at understanding the binding mechanism and structural basis for the interaction of structurally and functionally unrelated chemotherapeutic agent, namely doxorubicin, etoposide, omacetaxine mepesuccinate and paclitaxel with Sorcin by utilizing docking and molecular dynamic simulation approaches. The docking evaluation of etoposide, omacetaxine mepesuccinate and paclitaxel have shown a high affinity binding with Sorcin at the Ca", 
    "abstract": "G-quadruplexes have drawn widespread attention for serving as a potential anti-cancer target and their application in material science. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation is the key theoretical tool in the study of GQ's structure-function relationship. In this article, we systematically benchmarked the five force fields of parmbsc0, parmbsc1, OL15, AMOEBA, and Drude2017 on the MD simulation of G-quadruplex from four aspects: structural stability, central ion channel stability, description of Hoogsteen hydrogen bond network, and description of the main chain dihedral angle. The results show that the overall performance of the Drude force field is the best. Although there may be a certain over-polarization effect, it is still the best choice for the MD simulation of G-quadruplexes.", 
    "abstract": "A decision-theoretical approach was used to evaluate strategies to rebuild a severely depleted scallop (Pecten novaezelandiae) populations in the Tasman Bay and Golden Bay of New Zealand. These strategies were: no intervention, cessation of seabed bottom contact fishing, and reduction of sediment and nutrient runoff from surrounding land through on-farm practices. Our approach combined outputs of estimated effects of on-farm practices on erosion and nutrient reduction with a stochastic dynamic model of the scallop populations. The most effective individual intervention is eliminating bottom contact fishing through dredging and trawling which increased scallop biomass on average by 73% compared to the no intervention scenario. Although on-farm practices have reduced sedimentation and nutrient runoff significantly (28-36% and 2%, respectively), they have no effect on scallop biomass if implemented individually and led to only marginal improvements in scallop biomass if implemented alongside cessation of bottom contact fishing (2-4%). Although our results showed, on average, substantial recovery in the scallop population when reducing seabed bottom contact and water pollution, the large uncertainty boundaries makes it unclear whether these improvements would be realized. The long-term success of such strategies will depend on the available habitat being able to sustain high densities of healthy scallop adults and recruits, a situation that has been posited in our analysis. Where scallop juvenile survival is compromised by sedimentation, nutrient pollution, or other exogenous influences, proposed interventions may be insufficient to aid recovery.", 
    "abstract": "The accumulation of free radicals in the body develops chronic and degenerative diseases such as cancer, autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. The first aim of this work was to study the chemical composition of ", 
    "abstract": "Dapagliflozin (DAPA) is a selective sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor that reduces renal glucose reabsorption. The drug has recently become a crucial milestone in the management of diabetes and heart failure. In this study, the interaction of DAPA with bovine serum albumin (BSA) was investigated for the first time using various fluorescence spectroscopic techniques, UV-absorption spectroscopy, molecular docking, and molecular dynamic (MD) simulation. The fluorescence spectroscopic titration study performed at different temperatures showed that DAPA quenched the fluorescence of BSA through a combination of dynamic and static mechanisms, which was confirmed by UV absorption, fluorescence-resonance energy transfer measurements, and MD simulation. The binding thermodynamic parameters demonstrated that the binding stoichiometry between BSA and DAPA was 1:1. Competitive binding experiments using site-specific markers as well as molecular docking studies showed that DAPA binds to site I on BSA. The positive values of enthalpy change (\u0394H) and entropy change (\u0394S) revealed that hydrophobic forces played a predominant role in the binding of DAPA to BSA, whereas the negative value of Gibbs free energy change (\u0394G) indicated the spontaneity of the interaction. Moreover, the synchronous fluorescence spectroscopy has shown that DAPA binding to the protein molecule occurs in the vicinity of the tryptophan residue. These findings were confirmed by the molecular docking and MD simulation studies.", 
    "abstract": "Fluoride ion channels of the Fluc family plays a critically important role in combating environmental fluoride toxicity. As per the crystal structure of these fluoride ion channels, the pore region is densely packed with a series of hydrogen bond donating residues arranged in a ladder fashion creating an ion conducting pathway. In earlier studies, it was revealed that although the ion conducting pathway polarity is highly conserved, however the functionality of the channel protein depends on several residues at particular positions. While, a threonine at end of the pore is critically important in forming initial interactions, two phenylalanines at the central region coordinate F- transportation through the channel. It was also revealed that these two phenylalanines cannot be substituted by any other aromatic, polar or non-polar residues without hindering the functionality with exception of methionine. In another study, it was revealed that these two phenylalanines F80 and F83 when mutated with methionine; F80M lead to active state, while the F83M has lead to inactivity of F- anion conductivity. However, the exact atomic level detailing on how exactly these mutations have impacted the conductivity remained elusive. In this scenario, in this present study, we have modeled these two mutations and performed a microsecond level simulation on each mutation compared with wild type towards understanding the atomic level detailing revealing several insights on what exactly happening at these residues responsible for the selective conductivity of F- ions.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), a novel member of the betacoronavirus family is a single-stranded RNA virus that has spread worldwide prompting the World Health Organization to declare a global pandemic. This creates an alarming situation and generates an urgent need to develop innovative therapeutic agents. In this context, an ", 
    "abstract": "The emergence of novel coronavirus mutants is a main factor behind the deterioration of the epidemic situation. Further studies into the pathogenicity of these mutants are thus urgently needed. Binding of the spinous protein receptor binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor was shown to initiate coronavirus entry into host cells and lead to their infection. The receptor-binding motif (RBM, 438-506) is a region that directly interacts with ACE2 receptor in the RBD and plays a crucial role in determining affinity. To unravel how mutations in the non-RBM regions impact the interaction between RBD and ACE2, we selected three non-RBM mutant systems (N354D, D364Y, and V367F) from the documented clinical cases, and the Q498A mutant system located in the RBM region served as the control. Molecular dynamics simulation was conducted on the mutant systems and the wild-type (WT) system, and verified experiments also performed. Non-RBM mutations have been shown not only to change conformation of the RBM region but also to significantly influence its hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions. In particular, the D364Y and V367F systems showed a higher affinity for ACE2 owing to their electrostatic interactions and polar solvation energy changes. In addition, although the binding free energy at this point increased after the mutation of N354D, the conformation of the random coil (Pro384-Asp389) was looser than that of other systems, and the combined effect weakened the binding free energy between RBD and ACE2. Interestingly, we also found a random coil (Ala475-Gly485). This random coil is very sensitive to mutations, and both types of mutations increase the binding free energy of residues in this region. We found that the binding loop (Tyr495-Tyr505) in the RBD domain strongly binds to Lys353, an important residue of the ACE2 domain previously identified. The binding free energy of the non-RBM mutant group at the binding loop had positive and negative changes, and these changes were more obvious than that of the Q498A system. The results of this study elucidate the effect of non-RBM mutation on ACE2-RBD binding, and provide new insights for SARS-CoV-2 mutation research.", 
    "abstract": "The potential energy surfaces of the Vinylogous Wolff Rearrangement, an alternative process for the Wolff Rearrangement that takes place \u03b2,\u03b3-unsaturated diazoketones have been fully explored employing M062X model chemistry and in a complementary task by means of the CASSCF method. The NBO analysis has been invoked to reveal the alternations of orbital occupancies and their stabilization energies through some of the critical structures located on the pathways. The calculations establish a two steps process for each pathway involving a second higher energy transition state that seems likely to be the rate determining step in agreement with experimental results. Energy analysis indicates more feasibility of the pathway including diradical intermediate. The most striking feature of the study concerns the finding out a transition state providing a channel in between two pathways through interconversion of the two keys bicyclo[2.1.0]pentanone and diradical intermediates.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, surfactants were used to enhance heavy oil-solid separation, and a detailed mechanism was explored by SARA (saturates, aromatics, resins, asphaltenes) analysis, element analysis, AFM measurement, and molecular dynamic simulation. Surfactants could effectively decrease oil/solid interaction force and then oil-solid separation would be enhanced. The oil-solid interactive force was in relation to surfactants concentration, pH value, asphaltene content, and salinity. The molecular dynamics simulation results show that the dissociation of saturated hydrocarbon, aromatic hydrocarbon, resin, and asphaltene (SARA) on carbonate minerals is gradually weakened for all surfactants. In the process of molecular dynamics simulation of surfactant stripping SARA, firstly, the surfactant molecules adsorb on the surface of SARA molecules. After that, the surfactant peels SARA molecules off the surface of calcite under the influence of molecular thermal motion. In this process, surfactant molecules will not be directly adsorbed on the surface of trace minerals. The results of energy/temperature balance indicated that saturates, aromatics and resins could remain stable when the molecular dynamics simulation time reached 2000 ps with the phenomenon that saturates, aromatics could liberate from minerals totally within 2000 ps. The molecular dynamics simulation of asphaltenes will not liberate from calcite surface within 6000 ps, meanwhile, they could not reach the energy balance/energy balance within 6000 ps. The functional groups of surfactant molecules would have interactions with the SARA functional group, resulting in different dissociation effects of SARA. The results of molecular dynamics simulation are consistent with the experiment results. The separation effect of saturated hydrocarbon, aromatic hydrocarbon, resin, and asphaltene in five kinds of surfactants were different. The molecular dynamic simulation results were in accordance with the SARA analysis.", 
    "abstract": "The productivity of permanent temperate cut grasslands is mainly driven by weather, soil characteristics, botanical composition and management. To adapt management to climate change, adjusting the cutting dates to reflect earlier onset of growth and expansion of the vegetation period is particularly important. Simulations of cut grassland productivity under climate change scenarios demands management settings to be dynamically derived from actual plant development rather than using static values derived from current management operations. This is even more important in the alpine region, where the predicted temperature increase is twice as high as compared to the global or Northern Hemispheric average. For this purpose, we developed a dynamic management module that provides timing of cutting and manuring events when running the biogeochemical model LandscapeDNDC. We derived the dynamic management rules from long-term harvest measurements and monitoring data collected at pre-alpine grassland sites located in S-Germany and belonging to the TERENO monitoring network. We applied the management module for simulations of two grassland sites covering the period 2011-2100 and driven by scenarios that reflect the two representative concentration pathways (RCP) 4.5 and 8.5 and evaluated yield developments of different management regimes. The management module was able to represent timing of current management operations in high agreement with several years of field observations (r\u00b2 > 0.88). Even more, the shift of the first cutting dates scaled to a +1\u202f\u00b0C temperature increase simulated with the climate change scenarios (-9.1 to -17.1 days) compared well to the shift recorded by the German Weather Service (DWD) in the study area from 1991-2016 (-9.4 to -14.0 days). In total, the shift in cutting dates and expansion of the growing season resulted in 1-2 additional cuts per year until 2100. Thereby, climate change increased yields of up to 6 % and 15 % in the RCP 4.5 and 8.5 scenarios with highest increases mainly found for dynamically adapted grassland management going along with increasing fertilization rates. In contrast, no or only minor yield increases were associated with simulations restricted to fertilization rates of 170\u202fkg N ha", 
    "abstract": "Sustainable wildlife trade is critical for biodiversity conservation, livelihoods, and food security. Regulatory frameworks are needed to secure these diverse benefits of sustainable wildlife trade. However, regulations limiting trade can backfire, sparking illegal trade if demand is not met by legal trade alone. Assessing how regulations affect wildlife market participants' incentives is key to controlling illegal trade. Although much research has assessed how incentives at both the harvester and consumer ends of markets are affected by regulations, little has been done to understand the incentives of traders (i.e., intermediaries). We built a dynamic simulation model to support reduction in illegal wildlife trade within legal markets by focusing on incentives traders face to trade legal or illegal products. We used an Approximate Bayesian Computation approach to infer illegal trading dynamics and parameters that might be unknown (e.g., price of illegal products). We showcased the utility of the approach with a small-scale fishery case study in Chile, where we disentangled within-year dynamics of legal and illegal trading and found that the majority (\u223c77%) of traded fish is illegal. We utilized the model to assess the effect of policy interventions to improve the fishery's sustainability and explore the trade-offs between ecological, economic, and social goals. Scenario simulations showed that even significant increases (over 200%) in parameters proxying for policy interventions enabled only moderate improvements in ecological and social sustainability of the fishery at substantial economic cost. These results expose how unbalanced trader incentives are toward trading illegal over legal products in this fishery. Our model provides a novel tool for promoting sustainable wildlife trade in data-limited settings, which explicitly considers traders as critical players in wildlife markets. Sustainable wildlife trade requires incentivizing legal over illegal wildlife trade and consideration of the social, ecological, and economic impacts of interventions.\nUn Modelo Din\u00e1mico de Simulaci\u00f3n para Asistir en la Reducci\u00f3n del Comercio Ilegal dentro de Mercados Legales de Vida Silvestre Resumen El comercio sustentable de vida silvestre es cr\u00edtico para la conservaci\u00f3n de la biodiversidad, los medios de subsistencia y la seguridad alimentaria. Son necesarios marcos regulatorios para asegurar estos diversos beneficios del comercio sustentable de vida silvestre. Sin embargo, las regulaciones que limitan el comercio pueden ser contraproducentes, generando un mercado ilegal si la demanda no se suple solamente con el comercio legal. El an\u00e1lisis de c\u00f3mo las regulaciones afectan a los incentivos de los participantes del comercio de vida silvestre es de suma importancia para controlar el comercio ilegal. Mientras que muchas investigaciones se han centrado en analizar c\u00f3mo las regulaciones afectan tanto a quienes consumen como quieren proveen visa silvestre, , poco se ha hecho para entender los incentivos de los intermediarios. Construimos un modelo din\u00e1mico de simulaci\u00f3n para asistir en la reducci\u00f3n del comercio ilegal de vida silvestre dentro de los mercados legales, enfoc\u00e1ndonos en los incentivos que enfrentan los intermediarios para comercializar productos legales o ilegales. Usamos un enfoque de Computaci\u00f3n Bayesiana Aproximada para inferir las din\u00e1micas del comercio ilegal y los par\u00e1metros que podr\u00edan ser desconocidos (p. ej.: el precio de los productos ilegales). Demostramos la utilidad del modelo mediante el caso de estudio de una pesquer\u00eda de peque\u00f1a escala en Chile, en donde desentra\u00f1amos las din\u00e1micas del comercio legal e ilegal y estimamos que la mayor parte del pescado comercializado es ilegal. Utilizamos el modelo para analizar el efecto de intervenciones para mejorar la sustentabilidad de la pesquer\u00eda y para explorar los trade-offs entre metas ecol\u00f3gicas, econ\u00f3micas y sociales. Las simulaciones de escenarios mostraron que incluso incrementos significativos (m\u00e1s del 200%) de par\u00e1metros que recreaban intervenciones permitieron solamente mejoras moderadas en la sustentabilidad ecol\u00f3gica y social de la pesquer\u00eda a un costo econ\u00f3mico sustancial. Estos resultados exponen cu\u00e1n desequilibrados est\u00e1n los incentivos de los intermediarios hacia el comercio de productos ilegales por encima de los legales en esta pesquer\u00eda. Nuestro modelo proporciona una herramienta innovadora para la promoci\u00f3n del comercio sustentable de vida silvestre en entornos con datos limitados, y considera expl\u00edcitamente a los intermediarios como actores cr\u00edticos dentro del comercio de vida silvestre. El comercio sustentable de vida silvestre requiere incentivar el comercio legal sobre el ilegal y la consideraci\u00f3n del impacto social, ecol\u00f3gico y econ\u00f3mico de las intervenciones.\n\u53ef\u6301\u7eed\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u8d38\u6613\u5bf9\u751f\u7269\u591a\u6837\u6027\u4fdd\u62a4\u3001\u751f\u8ba1\u548c\u7cae\u98df\u5b89\u5168\u81f3\u5173\u91cd\u8981, \u8fd9\u4e9b\u76f8\u5173\u5229\u76ca\u9700\u8981\u76d1\u7ba1\u6846\u67b6\u6765\u4fdd\u969c\u3002\u7136\u800c, \u5982\u679c\u9650\u5236\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u8d38\u6613\u7684\u6cd5\u89c4\u5bfc\u81f4\u5408\u6cd5\u8d38\u6613\u65e0\u6cd5\u6ee1\u8db3\u9700\u6c42, \u5219\u53ef\u80fd\u4f1a\u9002\u5f97\u5176\u53cd\u5730\u5f15\u53d1\u975e\u6cd5\u8d38\u6613\u3002\u8bc4\u4f30\u76d1\u7ba1\u5982\u4f55\u5f71\u54cd\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u5e02\u573a\u53c2\u4e0e\u8005\u7684\u6fc0\u52b1\u6c34\u5e73\u662f\u63a7\u5236\u975e\u6cd5\u8d38\u6613\u7684\u5173\u952e\u3002\u867d\u7136\u8bb8\u591a\u7814\u7a76\u5df2\u7ecf\u8bc4\u4f30\u4e86\u76d1\u7ba1\u5982\u4f55\u5f71\u54cd\u5e02\u573a\u4e2d\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u6355\u83b7\u8005\u548c\u6d88\u8d39\u8005\u83b7\u5f97\u7684\u6fc0\u52b1\u6c34\u5e73, \u4f46\u5bf9\u4e8e\u4ea4\u6613\u8005(\u5982\u4e2d\u95f4\u5546)\u83b7\u5f97\u7684\u6fc0\u52b1\u6c34\u5e73\u5374\u9c9c\u6709\u7814\u7a76\u3002\u6211\u4eec\u5efa\u7acb\u4e86\u4e00\u4e2a\u52a8\u6001\u6a21\u62df\u6a21\u578b, \u901a\u8fc7\u5173\u6ce8\u4ea4\u6613\u8005\u5728\u4ea4\u6613\u5408\u6cd5\u53ca\u975e\u6cd5\u4ea7\u54c1\u65f6\u9762\u4e34\u7684\u6fc0\u52b1\u6c34\u5e73, \u6765\u652f\u6301\u5728\u5408\u6cd5\u5e02\u573a\u5185\u51cf\u5c11\u975e\u6cd5\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u4ea4\u6613\u3002\u672c\u7814\u7a76\u4f7f\u7528\u8fd1\u4f3c\u8d1d\u53f6\u65af\u8ba1\u7b97\u65b9\u6cd5\u63a8\u65ad\u4e86\u975e\u6cd5\u4ea4\u6613\u52a8\u6001\u548c\u53ef\u80fd\u672a\u77e5\u7684\u53c2\u6570(\u5982\u975e\u6cd5\u4ea7\u54c1\u7684\u4ef7\u683c), \u5e76\u5229\u7528\u667a\u5229\u4e00\u4e2a\u5c0f\u89c4\u6a21\u6e14\u573a\u7684\u6848\u4f8b\u7814\u7a76\u5c55\u793a\u4e86\u8be5\u65b9\u6cd5\u7684\u6709\u6548\u6027\u3002\u6211\u4eec\u5728\u8be5\u6e14\u573a\u7406\u6e05\u4e86\u5408\u6cd5\u548c\u975e\u6cd5\u4ea4\u6613\u7684\u5e74\u5185\u52a8\u6001, \u5e76\u53d1\u73b0\u5927\u591a\u6570\u7684\u9c7c\u7c7b\u4ea4\u6613\u90fd\u662f\u975e\u6cd5\u7684\u3002\u6211\u4eec\u8fd8\u5e94\u7528\u8be5\u6a21\u578b\u8bc4\u4f30\u4e86\u901a\u8fc7\u653f\u7b56\u5e72\u9884\u63d0\u9ad8\u6e14\u4e1a\u53ef\u6301\u7eed\u6027\u7684\u6548\u679c, \u5e76\u63a2\u7d22\u4e86\u751f\u6001\u3001\u7ecf\u6d4e\u548c\u793e\u4f1a\u76ee\u6807\u4e4b\u95f4\u7684\u5229\u5f0a\u6743\u8861\u3002\u60c5\u666f\u6a21\u62df\u8868\u660e, \u5373\u4f7f\u4ee3\u8868\u653f\u7b56\u5e72\u9884\u6c34\u5e73\u7684\u53c2\u6570\u663e\u8457\u589e\u52a0(\u8d85\u8fc7200%), \u4ecd\u53ea\u80fd\u82b1\u8d39\u9ad8\u6602\u7684\u7ecf\u6d4e\u6210\u672c\u5bf9\u6e14\u4e1a\u7684\u751f\u6001\u548c\u793e\u4f1a\u53ef\u6301\u7eed\u6027\u7a0d\u52a0\u6539\u5584\u3002\u4ee5\u4e0a\u7ed3\u679c\u63ed\u793a\u4e86\u8be5\u6e14\u573a\u4e2d\u4ea4\u6613\u8005\u5bf9\u975e\u6cd5\u4ea7\u54c1\u7684\u4ea4\u6613\u76f8\u5bf9\u4e8e\u5408\u6cd5\u4ea7\u54c1\u6709\u9ad8\u5ea6\u4e0d\u5e73\u8861\u7684\u6fc0\u52b1\u6c34\u5e73\u3002\u6211\u4eec\u7684\u6a21\u578b\u53ef\u4ee5\u660e\u786e\u5730\u5c06\u4ea4\u6613\u8005\u89c6\u4e3a\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u5e02\u573a\u4e2d\u7684\u5173\u952e\u53c2\u4e0e\u8005, \u4ece\u800c\u4e3a\u5728\u6570\u636e\u6709\u9650\u7684\u80cc\u666f\u4e0b\u4fc3\u8fdb\u53ef\u6301\u7eed\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u8d38\u6613\u63d0\u4f9b\u4e86\u4e00\u79cd\u65b0\u7684\u5de5\u5177\u3002\u53ef\u6301\u7eed\u7684\u91ce\u751f\u52a8\u7269\u8d38\u6613\u9700\u8981\u786e\u4fdd\u5408\u6cd5\u8d38\u6613\u76f8\u5bf9\u4e8e\u975e\u6cd5\u8d38\u6613\u83b7\u5f97\u66f4\u9ad8\u7684\u6fc0\u52b1\u6c34\u5e73, \u8fd8\u9700\u8981\u8003\u8651\u5e72\u9884\u5e26\u6765\u7684\u793e\u4f1a\u3001\u751f\u6001\u548c\u7ecf\u6d4e\u5f71\u54cd\u3002\u3010\u7ffb\u8bd1:\u80e1\u6021\u601d;\u5ba1\u6821:\u8042\u6c38\u521a\u3011.", 
    "abstract": "In this work, we investigated the simultaneous binding of curcumin (CUR) to human serum albumin (HSA) and human-holo transferrin (HTF) in the roles of binary and ternary systems. The binding affinity and binding site of protein-protein interaction were studied by the methods of multiple spectroscopic and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. According to the results, the measurements for binding constant of HSA-CUR, HTF-CUR and (HSA-HTF) CUR complexes were observed to be 1.51\u2009\u00d7\u200910", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The periplasmic binding protein (PBP) BtuF plays a key role in transporting vitamin B", 
    "abstract": "In vitro gut model systems permit the growth of gut microbes outside their natural habitat and are essential to the study of gut microbiota. Systems available today are limited by a lack of scalability and flexibility in the mode of operation. Here, we describe the development of a versatile bioreactor module that can be easily adjusted for culture size and capable of sensing and controlling of environmental parameters such as pH control of culture medium, rate of influx and efflux of the culture medium, and aerobic/anaerobic atmosphere. Bioreactor modules can be operated as single units or linked in series to construct a model of a digestive tract with multiple compartments to allow the growth of microbiota in vitro. We tested the growth of synthetic and natural bacterial communities in a multicompartment continuous dynamic culture model simulation of the mammalian gut. The distal compartments of a sterile system inoculated with the synthetic bacterial community at the proximal module attained a stable bacterial density by 24\u2009h, and all the genera present in the inoculum were firmly established in the distal modules simulating the large intestine at 5 days of continuous culture. A natural bacterial community simultaneously inoculated into the distal modules attained a stable bacterial composition at the phylum level by Day 7 of continuous culture. The findings illustrate the utility of the system to culture mixed bacterial communities which can be used to study the collective biological activities of the cultured microbiota in the absence of host influence.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most targeted neurodegenerative diseases in clinical research. Awareness of research is due to its increasing number of affected people worldwide. The pathology of PD has been linked to several key proteins upregulation such as the catechol O-Methyltransferase (COMT). Hence, the synthesis of compounds possessing inhibitory capacity has been the frontline of research in recent years. Several compounds have been synthesized among which is the nitrocatechol. However, major limitations associated with the nitrocatechol scaffold include the inability to possess adequate CNS penetration properties and hepatic toxicity associated with the compounds. However, a series of bicyclic hydroxypyridones compounds were synthesized to evaluate their inhibitory potentials on COMT protein with compound 38 (c38) 2-[(2,4-dichlorophenyl)methyl]-7-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-8H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrazin-8-one shown to have a 40 fold increase level coverage in its IC", 
    "abstract": "The newly emerged Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) rapidly outspread worldwide and now is one of the biggest infectious pandemics in human society. In this study, the inhibitory potential of 99 secondary metabolites obtained from endophytic fungi was investigated against the new coronavirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) using computational methods. A sequence of blind and targeted molecular dockings was performed to predict the more potent compounds on the viral enzyme. In the next step, the five selected compounds were further evaluated by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. Moreover, the pharmacokinetics of the metabolites was assessed using SwissADME server. The results of molecular docking showed that compounds 18-methoxy cytochalasin J, (22E,24R)-stigmasta-5,7,22-trien-3-\u03b2-ol, beauvericin, dankasterone B, and pyrrocidine A had higher binding energy than others. The findings of MD and SwissADME demonstrated that two fungal metabolites, 18-methoxy cytochalasin J and pyrrocidine A had better results than others in terms of protein instability, strong complex formation, and pharmacokinetic properties. In conclusion, it is recommended to further evaluate the compounds 18-methoxy cytochalasin J and pyrrocidine A in the laboratory as good candidates for inhibiting COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "Microtubules play crucial role in process of mitosis and cell proliferation, which have been considered as attractive drug targets for anticancer therapy. The aim of this study was to discover novel and chemically diverse tubulin inhibitors for treatment of cancer. In this investigation, the multilayer virtual screening methods, including common feature pharmacophore model, structure-based pharmacophore model and molecular docking, were developed to screen BioDiversity database with 30,000 compounds. A total of 102 compounds were obtained by the virtual screening, and further filtered by diverse chemical clusters with desired properties and PAINS analysis. Finally, 50 compounds were selected and submitted to the biological evaluation. Among these hits, hits 8 and 30 with novel scaffolds displayed stronger antiproliferative activity on four human tumor cells including Hela, A549, MCF-7, and HepG2. Moreover, the two hits were subsequently submitted to molecular dynamic simulations of 90\u2009ns with the aim of exploring the stability of ligand-protein interactions into the binding pocket, and further probing the mechanism of the interaction between tubulin and hits. The molecular dynamic simulation results revealed there had stronger interactions between tubulin and hits in equilibrium state. Therefore, the hits 8 and 30 have been well characterized as lead compounds for developing new tubulin inhibitors with potential anticancer activity.", 
    "abstract": "Cellulomonas uda produces Xyn11A, moderately thermostable xylanase, with optimal activity at 50 \u00b0C and pH 6.5. An improvement in the biochemical properties of Xyn11A was achieved by site-directed mutagenesis approach. Wild-type xylanase, Xyn11A-WT, and its mutant Xyn11A-N9Y were expressed in Escherichia coli, and then both enzymes were purified and characterized. Xyn11A-N9Y displayed optimal activity at 60 \u00b0C and pH 7.5, an upward shift of 10 \u00b0C in the optimum temperature and an upward shift of 1 unit in optimum pH; also, it manifested an 11-fold increase in thermal stability at 60 \u00b0C, compared to that displayed by Xyn11A-WT. Molecular dynamics simulations of Xyn11A-WT and Xyn11A-N9Y suggest that the substitution N9Y leads to an array of secondary structure changes at the N-terminal end and an increase in the number of hydrogen bonds in Xyn11A-N9Y. Based on the significant improvements, Xyn11A-N9Y may be considered as a candidate for several biotechnological applications.", 
    "abstract": "Inserting foreign epitopes to hepatitis B core (HBc) virus-like particles (VLPs) could influence the molecular conformation and therefore vary the purification process. In this study, a cost-effective purification process was developed for two chimeric HBc VLPs displaying Epstein-Barr nuclear antigens 1 (EBNA1), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) core. Both chimeric VLPs were expressed in soluble form with high production yields in ", 
    "abstract": "The SARS-CoV-2 helicase Nsp13 is a promising target for developing anti-COVID drugs. In the present study, we have identified potential natural product inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2 Nsp13 targeting the ATP-binding site using molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. MD simulation of the prepared crystal structure of SARS-CoV-2 Nsp13 was performed to generate an ensemble of structures of helicase Nsp13 capturing the conformational diversity of the ATP-binding site. A natural product library of more than 14,000 phytochemicals from Indian medicinal plants was used to perform virtual screening against the ensemble of Nsp13 structures. Subsequently, a two-stage filter, first based on protein-ligand docking binding energy value and second based on protein residues in the ligand-binding site and non-covalent interactions between the protein residues and the ligand in the best-docked pose, was used to identify 368 phytochemicals as potential inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2 helicase Nsp13. MD simulations of the top inhibitors complexed with protein were performed to confirm stable binding, and to compute MM-PBSA based binding energy. From among the 368 potential phytochemical inhibitors, the top identified potential inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2 helicase Nsp13 namely, Picrasidine M, (+)-Epiexcelsin, Isorhoeadine, Euphorbetin and Picrasidine N, can be taken up initially for experimental studies.", 
    "abstract": "The current manuscript describes two molecules that were designed against PPAR\u03b3 and GPR40 receptors. The preparation of the compounds was carried out following a synthetic route of multiple steps. Then, the mRNA expression levels of PPAR\u03b3, GLUT4, and GPR40 induced by compounds were measured and quantified in adipocyte and \u03b2-pancreatic cell cultures. The synthesized compound 1 caused an increase in the 4-fold expression of mRNA of PPAR\u03b3 regarding the control and had a similar behavior to the pioglitazone, while compound 2 only increased 2-fold the expression. Also, the compound 1 increased to 7-fold the GLUT4 expression levels, respect to the control and twice against the pioglitazone. On the other hand, the 1 increase 3-fold GPR40 expression, and compound 2 had a minor activity. Besides, 1 and 2 showed a moderated increase on insulin secretion and calcium mobilization versus the glibenclamide. Based on the molecular docking studies, the first compound had a similar conformation to co-crystal ligands into the binding site of both receptors. The poses were docked keeping the most important interactions and maintaining the interaction along the Molecular Dynamics simulation (20\u00a0ns). Finally, compound (1) showed an antihyperglycemic effect at 5\u00a0mg/kg, however at higher doses of 25\u00a0mg/kg it controlled blood glucose levels associated with feeding intake and without showing the adverse effects associated with insulin secretagogues (hypoglycemia). For these reasons, we have concluded that molecule 1 acts as a dual PPAR\u03b3 and GPR40 agonist offering a better glycemic control than current treatments.", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to investigate the effect of pH levels (pH 7.0 and pH 8.1) on binding ability of \u03b2-lactoglobulin (\u03b2-LG) with lycopene (LYC) and elucidate interaction mechanisms using multi-spectroscopy and molecular docking study. \u03b2-LG at pH 8.1 showed a stronger binding affinity to lycopene than that at pH 7.0 according to binding constant, binding number, energy transfer efficiency, and surface hydrophobicity. Lycopene bound to protein mainly by van der Waals force in the form of static quenching mode and preferred to interact with \u03b2-LG at the top of barrel for both pH levels. Molecular dynamic simulation revealed that \u03b2-LG/LYC complex at pH 8.1 was more stable than at pH 7.0. \u03b2-LG/LYC complexes formed at pH 8.1 showed significantly higher ABTS radical scavenging activity than samples at pH 7.0 (p\u00a0<\u00a00.05). Data obtained may contribute valuable information for preparing a whey protein-based delivery system for lycopene.", 
    "abstract": "Our study aimed to develop and find out the best drug candidate against the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR/FRB) domain having a critical role in the aetiology of breast cancer. The FKBP12-rapamycin-binding (FRB) domain in the essential phosphoinositide 3 kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin (PI3K/AKT/mTOR) pathway has been a vital player in the disease progression in breast cancer. By using structure-based drug designing , the best possible targets have been identified and developed. The three-dimensional structure of the target protein was generated using I-TASSER. The ligands were generated against the most suitable target active site using standard tools for active site identification. Furthermore, the seed molecule was drawn using Chemsketch, which was then grown into the pocket using Ligbuilder. The obtained ligands were further validated using online programs for bioavailability and toxicity, followed by molecular dynamic simulations. The study concludes that the equilibrated NVT-NPT complexes indicate LIG2 stability over LIG3. RMSD and RMSF have shown that the complex of LIG2 is more stable than LIG3. LIG2 has the potential antagonistic properties to target the mTOR/FRB domain and has therapeutic implications for breast cancer.", 
    "abstract": "Nutrient transport in seasonally ice-covered lakes is an important factor affecting spring algal blooms in eutrophic waters; because phase changes during the ice growth process redistribute the nutrients. In this study, nutrient transport under static conditions was simulated by using two ice thickness models in combination with an indoor freezing experiment under different segregation coefficient conditions for nutrients. A real-time prediction model for nutrient and pollutant concentrations in ice-covered lakes was established to explore the impact of the ice-on period in eutrophic shallow lakes. The results demonstrated that the empirical degree-day model and the high-resolution thermodynamic snow and sea-ice model (HIGHTSI) could both be used to simulate lake ice thickness. The empirical degree-day model performed better at predicting the maximum ice thickness (measured thickness 0.22-0.55\u00a0m; simulated thickness 0.48\u00a0m), whereas the HIGHTSI model was more accurate when estimating the mean thickness (5-6% error). When simulating ice growth, the HIGHTSI model considered more meteorological factors impacting ice cover ablation; hence, it performed better during the ablation stage relative to the empirical degree-day model. Two non-dynamic nutrient transport models were developed by combining the segregation coefficient model and the ice thickness prediction model. The HIGHTSI nutrient transport model can be used to predict real-time changes in nutrient concentrations under ice cover, and the degree-day model can be used to predict changes in the lake water ecosystem.", 
    "abstract": "In order to examine the adsorption mechanisms of paclitaxel (PTX) on silicene nanosheet (SNS) molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are carried out. The MD outcomes show that the adsorption of PTX on the pristine SNS is exothermic and spontaneous. The interaction between the PTX molecule and the pristine SNS is mainly due to the formation of \u03c0-\u03c0 interactions through their aromatic rings, which are supplemented by X-\u03c0 (X\u00a0=\u00a0N-H, C-H, and CO) interactions. Upon functionalization of SNS by Polyethylenimine (PEI), drug molecules prefer to bind to the nanocarrier instead of the polymer. In the functionalized SNS (f-SNS), the binding energy of the drug with the nanocarrier becomes stronger in comparison to the SNS case (E", 
    "abstract": "Thalidomide and its derivatives lenalidomide and\u00a0pomalidomide, known as immunomodulatory drugs, (IMiDs)\u00a0bind\u00a0directly to cereblon (CRBN), a substrate receptor of an E3 ubiquitin ligase, resulting in the rapid ubiquitination and degradation of the substrate protein. With the discovery of the protein degradation mechanism of IMiDs, targeted protein degradation mediated by IMiDs via CRBN emerged and developed rapidly for the advantages of overcoming drug resistance and targeting undruggable. To date, almost all CRBN ligands are derived from thalidomide and there are few structural differences between them. Hence, we employed an accurate, effective, and rational approach to screen novel and potential CRBN ligands. In this study, we have built a molecular library by scaffold hopping with thalidomide. ADMET screening, virtual screening, and visual inspection screening\u00a0were performed step-by-step to screen the molecular library and five molecules were hit. Furthermore, docking analysis and a period of 150\u2009ns molecular dynamic (MD) simulation were performed to validate the accuracy of our screen. The docking results showed that molecular A (-10.42\u2009kcal/mol), molecular B (-9.73\u2009kcal/mol), molecular C (-9.25\u2009kcal/mol), molecular D (-9.09\u2009kcal/mol), and molecular E (-10.16\u2009kcal/mol) have lower binding energy than thalidomide (-5.42\u2009kcal/mol), lenalidomide (-5.74\u2009kcal/mol), and pomalidomide (-5.51\u2009kcal/mol). In the MD simulation, all the five screened molecules form key interactions with the active site amino acid residues (Trp380, Trp386, and Trp400) as well as the three marketed IMiDs. Besides, we found and explained that Pro352 was positive for ligand binding to CRBN and Glu377 in reverse, which has not been reported before. We believe that our findings and those five molecules can serve as further optimization of CRBN ligands and development of proteolysis targeting chimeras.", 
    "abstract": "To determine whether quaternary ammonium (k21) binds to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike protein via computational molecular docking simulations, the crystal structure of the SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor-binding domain complexed with ACE-2 (PDB ID: 6LZG) was downloaded from RCSB PD and prepared using Schrodinger 2019-4. The entry of SARS-CoV-2 inside humans is through lung tissues with a pH of 7.38-7.42. A two-dimensional structure of k-21 was drawn using the 2D-sketcher of Maestro 12.2 and trimmed of C18 alkyl chains from all four arms with the assumption that the core moiety k-21 was without C18. The immunogenic potential of k21/QA was conducted using the C-ImmSim server for a position-specific scoring matrix analyzing the human host immune system response. Therapeutic probability was shown using prediction models with negative and positive control drugs. Negative scores show that the binding of a quaternary ammonium compound with the spike protein's binding site is favorable. The drug molecule has a large Root Mean Square Deviation fluctuation due to the less complex geometry of the drug molecule, which is suggestive of a profound impact on the regular geometry of a viral protein. There is high concentration of Immunoglobulin M/Immunoglobulin G, which is concomitant of virus reduction. The proposed drug formulation based on quaternary ammonium to characterize affinity to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein using simulation and computational immunological methods has shown promising findings.", 
    "abstract": "Physicians utilize cerebral perfusion maps (e.g., cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, transit time) to prescribe the plan of care for stroke patients. Variability in scanning techniques and post-processing software can result in differences between these perfusion maps. To determine which techniques are acceptable for clinical care, it is important to validate the accuracy and reproducibility of the perfusion maps. Validation using clinical data is challenging due to the lack of a gold standard to assess cerebral perfusion and the impracticality of scanning patients multiple times with different scanning techniques. In contrast, simulated data from a realistic digital phantom of the cerebral perfusion in acute stroke patients would enable studies to optimize and validate the scanning and post-processing techniques.\nWe describe a complete framework to simulate CT perfusion studies for stroke assessment. We begin by expanding the XCAT brain phantom to enable spatially varying contrast agent dynamics and incorporate a realistic model of the dynamics in the cerebral vasculature derived from first principles. A dynamic CT simulator utilizes the time-concentration curves to define the contrast agent concentration in the object at each time point and generates CT perfusion images compatible with commercially available post-processing software. We also generate ground truth perfusion maps to which the maps generated by post-processing software can be compared.\nWe demonstrate a dynamic CT perfusion study of a simulated patient with an ischemic stroke and the resulting perfusion maps generated by post-processing software. We include a visual comparison between the computer-generated perfusion maps and the ground truth perfusion maps. The framework is highly tunable; users can modify the perfusion properties (e.g., occlusion location, CBF, CBV, and MTT), scanner specifications (e.g., focal spot size and detector configuration), scanning protocol (e.g., kVp and mAs), and reconstruction parameters (e.g., slice thickness and reconstruction filter).\nThis framework provides realistic test data with the underlying ground truth that enables a robust assessment of CT perfusion techniques and post-processing methods for stroke assessment.", 
    "abstract": "In the past decade, there was increased research interest in studying internal motions of flexible proteins in solution using Neutron Spin Echo (NSE) as NSE can simultaneously probe the dynamics at the length and time scales comparable to protein domain motions. However, the collective intermediate scattering function (ISF) measured by NSE has the contributions from translational, rotational, and internal motions, which are rather complicated to be separated. Widely used NSE theories to interpret experimental data usually assume that the translational and rotational motions of a rigid particle are decoupled and independent to each other. To evaluate the accuracy of this approximation for monoclonal antibody (mAb) proteins in solution, dissipative particle dynamic computer simulation is used here to simulate a rigid-body mAb for up to about 200 ns. The total ISF together with the ISFs due to only the translational and rotational motions as well as their corresponding effective diffusion coefficients is calculated. The aforementioned approximation introduces appreciable errors to the calculated effective diffusion coefficients and the ISFs. For the effective diffusion coefficient, the error introduced by this approximation can be as large as about 10% even though the overall agreement is considered reasonable. Thus, we need to be cautious when interpreting the data with a small signal change. In addition, the accuracy of the calculated ISFs due to the finite computer simulation time is also discussed.", 
    "abstract": "The comprehensive \nA library of 57 aromatic pharmacophore phytochemical ligands was prepared from where the top five ligands depending on Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity (ADMET) and quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR)-based pharmacokinetic properties were considered. The selected ligands were optimized for commencing molecular docking and dynamic simulation as a complex with the ACE2 receptor to compare their blocking efficacy with the control drug. The ligand-receptor complexes' accuracy in preventing the Spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 penetration inside the host cells has been analyzed through hydrogen-hydrophobic bond interactions, principal component analysis (PCA), root mean square deviation (RMSD), root mean square fluctuation (RMSF), and B-Factor. Advanced \nADMET and QSAR revealed Rhamnetin, Lactupicrin, Rhinacanthin D, Flemiflavanone D, and Exiguaflavanone A as the ligands of our interest to be compared with the control Cassiarin D. According to the molecular docking binding affinity to block ACE2 receptor, the efficiency mountings were Rhinacanthin D > Flemiflavanone D > Lactupicrin > Exiguaflavanone A > Rhamnetin. The binding affinity of the Cassiarin D-ACE2 complex was (-10.2 KJ/mol) found inferior to the Rhinacanthin D-ACE2 complex (-10.8 KJ/mol), referring to Rhinacanthin D as a more stable candidate to use as drugs. The RMSD values of protein-ligand complexes evaluated according to their structural conformation and stable binding pose ranged between 0.1~2.1 \u00c5. The B-factor showed that very few loops were present in the protein structure. The RMSF peak fluctuation regions ranged 5-250, predicting efficient ligand-receptor interactions.\nThe experiment sequentially measures all the parameters required in referring to any pharmacophore as a drug, considering which all aromatic components analyzed in the study can strongly be predicted as target-specific medication against the novel coronavirus 2019 infection.", 
    "abstract": "Since the last 4 decades, Bedaquiline has been the first drug discovered as a new kind of anti-tubercular agent and received FDA approval in December 2012 to treat pulmonary multi-drug resistance tuberculosis (MDR-TB). It demonstrates excellent efficacy against MDR-TB by effectively inhibiting mycobacterial ATP synthase. In addition to these apparent assets of Bedaquiline, potential disadvantages of Bedaquiline include inhibition of the hERG (human Ether-\u00e0-go-related gene; KCNH2), potassium channel (concurrent risk of cardiac toxicity), and risk of phospholipidosis due to its more lipophilic nature. To assist the effective treatment of MDR-TB, highly active Bedaquiline analogs that display a better safety profile are urgently needed. A structure-based virtual screening approach was used to address the toxicity problems associated with Bedaquiline. Among the virtually screened compound, CID 15947587 had significant docking affinity (-\u20095.636\u00a0kcal/mol) and highest binding free energy (\u0394G bind -\u200985.2703\u00a0kcal/mol) towards the \nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-021-00086-x.", 
    "abstract": "Social science models find the ecological impacts of climate change (EICC) contribute to internal migration in developing countries and, less so, international migration. Projections expect massive climate-related migration in this century. Nascent research calls to study health, migration, population, and armed conflict potential together, accounting for EICC and other factors. System science offers a way: develop a dynamic simulation model (DSM). We aim to validate the feasibility and usefulness of a pilot DSM intended to serve as a proof-of-concept and a basis for identifying model extensions to make it less simplified and more realistic.\nStudies have separately examined essential parts. Our DSM integrates their results and computes composites of health problems (HP), health care (HC), non-EICC environmental health problems (EP), and environmental health services (ES) by origin site and by immigrants and natives in a destination site, and conflict risk and intensity per area. The exogenous variables include composites of EICC, sociopolitical, economic, and other factors. We simulate the model for synthetic input values and conduct sensitivity analyses.\nThe simulation results refer to generic origin and destination sites anywhere on Earth. The effects' sizes are likely inaccurate from a real-world view, as our input values are synthetic. Their signs and dynamics are plausible, internally consistent, and, like the sizes, respond logically in sensitivity analyses. Climate migration may harm public health in a host area even with perfect HC/ES qualities and full access; and no HP spillovers across groups, conflict, EICC, and EP. Deviations from these conditions may worsen everyone's health. We consider adaptation options.\nThis work shows we can start developing DSMs to understand climate migration and public health by examining each case with its own inputs. Validation of our pilot model suggests we can use it as intended. We lay a path to making it more realistic for policy analysis.", 
    "abstract": "In this work, by using molecular dynamic simulation we provide microscale structure information which helps to reveal the molecular mechanisms concerning the multi-chain conformational behavior of short curdlan. Through simulations starting with different conformations of curldan dodecasaccharides, it is found that the right-handed triple helix is thermodynamically the most stable conformation in aqueous solutions, which is well maintained and stabilized by an inter-strand hydrogen bonding network of the C", 
    "abstract": "The binding and displacement interaction of colchicine and azithromycin to the model transport protein bovine serum albumin (BSA) was evaluated in this study. Azithromycin, a macrolide antibiotic, has antiviral properties and hence, has been used concomitantly with hydroxychloroquine against SARS-CoV-2. Colchicine, a natural plant product is used to treat and prevent acute gout flares. Some macrolide antibiotics are reported to have fatal drug-drug interactions with colchicine. The displacement interaction between colchicine and azithromycin on binding to BSA was evaluated using spectroscopic techniques, molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation studies. The binding constant recorded for the binary system BSA-colchicine was 7.44\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010", 
    "abstract": "Though significant efforts are in progress for developing drugs and vaccines against COVID-19, limited therapeutic agents are available currently. Thus, it is essential to undertake COVID-19 research and to identify therapeutic interventions in which computational modeling and virtual screening of lead molecules provide significant insights. The present study aimed to predict the interaction potential of natural lead molecules against prospective protein targets of SARS-CoV-2 by molecular modeling, docking, and dynamic simulation. Based on the literature survey and database search, fourteen molecular targets were selected and the three targets which lack the native structures were computationally modeled. The drug-likeliness and pharmacokinetic features of ninety-two natural molecules were predicted. Four lead molecules with ideal drug-likeliness and pharmacokinetic properties were selected and docked against fourteen targets, and their binding energies were compared with the binding energy of the interaction between Chloroquine and Hydroxychloroquine to their usual targets. The stabilities of selected docked complexes were confirmed by MD simulation and energy calculations. Four natural molecules demonstrated profound binding to most of the prioritized targets, especially, Hyoscyamine and Tamaridone to spike glycoprotein and Rotiorinol-C and Scutifoliamide-A to replicase polyprotein-1ab main protease of SARS-CoV-2 showed better binding energy, conformational and dynamic stabilities compared to the binding energy of Chloroquine and its usual target glutathione-S-transferase. The aforementioned lead molecules can be used to develop novel therapeutic agents towards the protein targets of SARS-CoV-2, and the study provides significant insight for structure-based drug development against COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "The global pandemic due to the novel Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Corona Virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has taken more than a million lives. Lack of definitive vaccine/drugs against this highly contagious virus has accelerated exploratory research on novel natural and synthetic inhibitors. Tea is a rich source of bioactives and known to have antiviral properties. In this study, an ", 
    "abstract": "A plantigrade foot with a large robust calcaneus is regarded as a distinctive morphological feature of the human foot; it is presumably the result of adaptation for habitual bipedal locomotion. The foot of the Japanese macaque, on the other hand, does not have such a feature, which hampers it from making foot-ground contact at the heel during bipedal locomotion. Understanding how this morphological difference functionally affects the generation of bipedal locomotion is crucial for elucidating the evolution of human bipedalism. In this study, we constructed a forward dynamic simulation of bipedal locomotion in the Japanese macaque based on a neuromusculoskeletal model to evaluate how virtual manipulation of the foot structure from digitigrade to plantigrade affects the kinematics, dynamics, and energetics of bipedal locomotion in a nonhuman primate whose musculoskeletal anatomy is not adapted to bipedalism. The normal bipedal locomotion generated was in good agreement with that of actual Japanese macaques. If, as in human walking, the foot morphology was altered to allow heel contact, the vertical ground reaction force profile became double-peaked and the cost of transport decreased. These results suggest that evolutionary changes in the foot structure were important for the acquisition of human-like efficient bipedal locomotion.", 
    "abstract": "The AnyBody Modeling System\u2122 (AMS) is a musculoskeletal software simulation solution using inverse dynamics analysis. It enables the determination of muscle and joint forces for a given bodily motion. The recording of the individual movement and the transfer into the AMS is a complex and protracted process. Researches indicated that the contactless, visual Leap Motion Controller (LMC) provides clinically meaningful motion data for hand tracking. Therefore, the aim of this study was to integrate the LMC hand motion data into the AMS in order to improve the process of recording a hand movement. A Python-based interface between the LMC and the AMS, termed ROSE Motion, was developed. This solution records and saves the data of the movement as Biovision Hierarchy (BVH) data and AnyScript vector files that are imported into the AMS simulation. Setting simulation parameters, initiating the calculation automatically, and fetching results is implemented by using the AnyPyTools library from AnyBody. The proposed tool offers a rapid and easy-to-use recording solution for elbow, hand, and finger movements. Features include animation, cutting/editing, exporting the motion, and remote controlling the AMS for the analysis and presentation of musculoskeletal simulation results. Comparing the motion tracking results with previous studies, covering problems when using the LMC limit the correctness of the motion data. However, fast experimental setup and intuitive and rapid motion data editing strengthen the use of marker less systems as the herein presented compared to marker based motion capturing.", 
    "abstract": "Heat shock protein90 (Hsp90) is overexpressed in tumor cells, thus the inhibition of the Hsp90 ATPase activity would be a meaningfully effective strategy in cancer therapy.\nThe present work was aimed at four steps: designing new Hsp90 inhibitors as anti-cancer by a virtual screening study; synthesize designed compounds; biological evaluation of them and finally molecular dynamic (MD) simulations of best compounds.\nA virtual screening study was performed on a library (100 compounds) of the ZINC database with benzimidazole scaffold; then an extracted compound and two derivatives were synthesized. The anti-proliferative and ATPase inhibitory activities of these compounds were evaluated by MTT and ATPase inhibition assays, respectively. The western blot analysis was performed to the evaluation of the expression level of Hsp70 and Her2 proteins. Finally, 200 ns molecular dynamic simulation was carried out to confirm the stability of the strongest synthesized compound in Hsp90 active site.\nZINC00173501 compound with an aminobenzimidazole scaffold was chosen by the virtual screening study. ZINC00173501 compound and two of its derivatives were synthesized. ATPase inhibitory activity of three synthesized compounds shown that ZINC00173501 compound was the most potent inhibitor (IC50= 8.6 \u03bcM) with the anti-proliferative activity 14.41 \u03bcM, 19.07 \u03bcM and more than 100 \u03bcM against MCF-7, HeLa and HUVEC cell lines, respectively. The high level of Hsp70 expression and low level of Her2 expression confirmed ZINC00173501 as an Hsp90 inhibitor. Finally, molecular dynamics simulation showed that ZINC00173501 was stable in Hsp90 active site during 200 ns simulation.\nThe biological evaluation results show that 2-aminobenzimidazole scaffold could be suggested as a lead for inhibition of Hsp90.", 
    "abstract": "Protein Z (PZ) dependent protease inhibitor (ZPI) is a natural anticoagulant inhibiting blood coagulation proteases fXa and fXIa. Despite being a member of the serpin superfamily, it possesses unique structural features such as activation by PZ, regulating its inhibitory function. In order to understand the Reactive Centre Loop (RCL) dynamics of ZPI, which is absolutely critical for its activity, we performed Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulation on ZPI and its E371 and S359 variants located at important conserved functional sites. Unexpectedly, the RCL of E371 variants, (E371K, E371R, and E371Q), were shown to be very stable due to compensatory interactions at the proximal end of RCL. Interestingly, RCL flexibility was shown to be enhanced in the double mutant K318E-E371K due to the repulsive effect of increased negative charge on top of the breach region. Principal component analysis (PCA) coupled with residue wise interaction network analysis(RIN) revealed correlated motion between the RCL and the PZ binding regions in the WT. However, a loss of regulation in correlated motion between RCL and PZ binding hotspot Tyr240 in the double mutant was also observed. Additionally, the S359F and S359I mutations resulted in increased RCL flexibility owing to the disruption of stabilizing hydrogen bonding interaction at the distal end of strand S5A. Thus, the current study proposes that the overall stabilizing interactions of S5A is a major regulator of proper loop movement of ZPI for its activity. The results would be beneficial to engineer activity compromised ZPI as a prophylactic agent for the treatment of hemophilia.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "The hallmark of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the accumulation of aggregated, misfolded proteins. The cause for this accumulation is increased production of misfolded proteins and impaired clearance of them. Amyloid aggregation and tau hyperphosphorylation are the two proteinopathies which accomplish deprivation of cell and tissue hemostasis during neuropathological process of the AD, as a result of which progressive neuronal degeneration and the loss of cognitive functions. p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) has been implicated in both the events associated with AD: tau protein phosphorylation and inflammation. p38\u03b1 MAPK pathway is activated by a dual phosphorylation at Thr180 and Tyr182 residues. Clinical and preclinical evidence implicates the stress related kinase p38\u03b1 MAPK as a potential neurotherapeutic target. Drug design of p38\u03b1 MAPK inhibitors is mainly focused on small molecules that compete for Adenosine triphosphate in the catalytic site. Here we have carried out the synthesis of phenyl sulfonamide derivatives Sulfo (I) and Sulfo (II). Crystal structures of Sulfo (I) and Sulfo (II) were solved by direct methods using ", 
    "abstract": "This study developed a comprehensive characterization method for the combined degradation effect of modified fluoroquinolones (FQs) photodegradation and microbial degradation. A combination of revised 3D-QSAR model, molecular docking, path simulation inference, pharmacokinetics, molecular dynamics (MD) simulation and toxicokinetics simulation was used to construct a systematic environment-friendly drug screening system. Five derivatives were screened with significantly improved combined degradation effect (over 20%) and functional characteristics and human health parameters through combined model verification, functional and human health risk assessment. The simulation path of photo- and microbial-degradation of gatifloxacin and new gatifloxacin molecules was derived, and the reaction energy barrier was also calculated. The ratio of the total rate-determining steps change rate of the decreased energy barrier (14.10%:26.30%) was consistent with the ratio of the increased degradation performance predicted by the model (22.87%:19.77%), demonstrating the reliability of revised 3D-QSAR model and it could be applied in molecular modification. MD and toxicokinetics simulation were used to predict the binding energy and aquatic toxicity between photo- and microbial-degradation products and the degradation enzymes, which further to screen the degradation pathways with low potential environmental risks. The findings will be helpful to screen environment-friendly drug and develop appropriate strategies for its risk management.", 
    "abstract": "Coastal cities play an important role in regional economic development and sustainable development strategies of water resources and their ecological environment. As a typical coastal city in Hebei Province, Qinhuangdao city is facing severe problems, such as water shortages and water environment deterioration, while social and economic development continues. Based on input-output analysis, we established a dynamic optimization model among Qinhuangdao city's socioeconomic development, water resources and water environment. The 2013-2030 simulation after introducing comprehensive water resources policies of regional development, examines the regional socioeconomic development, optimizes the water resources supply structure and improves the water environment under the optimal scenario, and evaluates policy feasibility through cost-benefit analysis (CBA). The simulation results suggest that under the optimal scenario, the water-use efficiency (WE) of Qinhuangdao is improved by 59.14% and the proportion of reclaimed water and desalinated seawater in the water supply structure is increased by 13.70%. In addition, it has achieved an average annual gross regional production (GRP) growth rate of 6.36% and an average annual chemical oxygen demand (COD) emission rate of 17.95%. Moreover, the net present value (NPV) of the projects under the optimal scenario is 1.534 billion Chinese yuan (CNY), which means that the policy is economically feasible. Our research is helpful to improve the WE, optimize the water supply structure and protect the hydrogeological environment in coastal cities with water shortages and can provide a reference for Qinhuangdao city and other similar coastal cities to realize the rational utilization of water resources and regional sustainable development.", 
    "abstract": "The importance of computer-aided drug design and development is clear nowadays. These approaches smooth the way of designing some efficient candidates based on drugs in use. At this place, we studied the mechanism of D4-abiraterone (D4A), the active metabolite of Abiraterone (Abi), binding to CYP17A1 compared with Abi. The molecular dynamics simulation results reveal that the metabolite, which lacks the key 3\u03b2-OH group, has a varied H-bond forming pattern. The critical H-bond between 3\u03b2-OH of Abi with Asn_202 turns to 3 Keto-O of D4A with Arg_239 in the substrate-binding site. This interaction causes a remarkable distance of 0.63\u00a0nm between D4A nitrogen and Fe in heme, which reduces its 17,20 lyase selectivity. The D4A keto moiety presents an immense number of H-bond with surrounding solvent molecules compared with the Abi hydroxyl group. As a result, D4A develops a weaker H-bond network with the enzyme. Otherwise, the heterocyclic nature of inhibitors helps for noticeable van der Waals interaction formation with CYP17A1. However, Abi stabilized position in the binding site helps more van der Waals interactions deposition than D4A. These results convinced the importance of the conserved H-bond for acquiring the proper position by the substrate or inhibitor in the binding site.", 
    "abstract": "Lizards run quickly and stably in a bipedal gait, with their bodies exhibiting a lateral S-shaped undulation. We investigate the relationship between a lizard's bipedal running and its body movement with the help of a dynamic simulation. In this study, a dynamic theoretical model of lizard is assumed as a three-link consisting of an anterior and posterior bodies, and a tail, with morphometrics based on Callisaurus draconoides. When a lizard runs straight in a stable bipedal gait, its pelvic rotation is periodically synchronized with its gait. This study shows that the S-shaped body undulation with the yaw motion is generated by minimizing the square of joint torque. Furthermore, we performed the biomechanical simulation to figure out the relationship between the lizard's lateral body undulation and the bipedal running locomotion. In the biomechanical simulation, all joint torques significantly vary by the waist and tail' motions at the same locomotion. Besides, when the waist and tail joint angles increase, the stride length and duration of the model also increase, and the stride frequency decreases at the same running speed. It means that the lizard's undulatory body movements increase its stride and help it run faster. In this study, we found the benefits of the lizard's undulatory body movement and figured out the relationship between the body movement and the locomotion by analyzing the dynamics. In the future works, we will analyze body movements under different environments with various simulators.", 
    "abstract": "Cationic triarylmethane dyes such as malachite green are aromatic xenobiotic compounds causing environmental pollution. The affinity between hazardous materials and biomolecules makes it important to understand the properties of such compounds. Accordingly, in this study, the possible molecular interaction between this pollutant and the human serum albumin (HSA) was investigated using a combination of molecular docking, molecular dynamic simulation and multi-spectroscopic approaches. The docking results illustrated that malachite green oxalate (MGO) could bind to some of the HSA amino acids with the estimated free energy\u00a0=\u00a0-32.93\u00a0kJ/mol. Further, the results of the dynamic simulation revealed that MGO had a steady interaction with the protein though increasing flexibility and decreasing the HSA compactness. These results were, therefore, in agreement with those obtained by spectroscopic techniques. The MGO concentration of 0.0005\u00a0mM could quench the HSA's intrinsic fluorescence by %16.88. The protein structural changes also revealed that the binding interaction of MGO-HSA was accompanied by an increase in the \u03b1-helix and a decrease in the \u03b2-sheet of the protein. Overall, this study indicated the suitable molecular modeling interaction of MGO and HSA.", 
    "abstract": "Human serum albumin (HSA) is the core protein in the systemic circulation and has a fundamental role in transportation and distribution of ligands in-vivo. In this study, a newly synthesized and patented anticancer dihydropyrimidine derivative; 4-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-5-(3,4,5- trimethoxybenzoyl)-3,4-dihydropyrimidin-2(1H)-one (DHP) was evaluated for its binding to HSA. Ligand-HSA interaction is significant factor to attribute the toxicity or therapeutic potential to a ligand. Multi-spectroscopic studies combined with molecular modelling and molecular dynamic simulation (MDS) were conducted to understand the HSA-DHP binding mechanism. In-silico evaluation of DHP for its toxicity and metabolism was also conducted. Reduction in the binding constants was observed from 6.71\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010", 
    "abstract": "Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer in women worldwide. To treat human breast cancer by inhibiting EGFR and HER2 targets is an important therapeutic option. Phytochemicals are found to have beneficial health effects in treating various diseases. An effort has been made to virtually screen phytochemical inhibitor by molecular docking and dynamic simulation in the current studies. The docking scores analysis resulted in a common hit Panaxadiol ligand with a low dock score for EGFR and HER2 targets. The inhibitory action of the phytocompounds was also validated by comparing it with the reference compounds Erlotinib for EGFR and Neratinib for HER2. Molecular dynamic simulation of EGFR and HER2 lead complexes ensure the ligand's appropriate refinement in the dynamic system. The target and ligand complex interaction motif established a high affinity of lead candidates in a dynamic system similar to molecular docking results. This study reveals that Panaxadiol hit molecule can be developed as a novel multi-target EGFR and HER2 target inhibitor with greater potential and low toxicity.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Many proteins and peptides have been identified to effectively and specifically bind on certain surfaces such as silica, polystyrene and titanium dioxide. It is of great interest, in many areas such as enzyme immobilization, surface functionalization and nanotechnology, to understand how these proteins/peptides bind to solid surfaces. Here we use single-molecule force spectroscopy (SMFS) based on atomic force microscopy to directly measure the adhesion force between a silica-binding peptide SB7 and glass surface at single molecule level. SMFS results show that the adhesion force of a single SB7 detaching from the glass surface distributes in two populations at ~220 pN and 610 pN, which is higher than the unfolding forces of most mechanically stable proteins and the unbinding forces of most stable protein-protein interactions. Molecular dynamics simulation reveals that the electrostatic interactions between positively charged arginine residues and the silica surface dominates the binding of SB7 on silica. Our study provides experimental evidence and molecular mechanism at the single-molecule level for the SB7-based immobilization of proteins on silica-based surface, which is able to withstand high mechanical forces, making it an ideal fusion tag for silica surface immobilization or peptide-base adhesive materials.", 
    "abstract": "Substituent effect on optical gas sensing performance in porphyrin-based optical waveguide detection system was studied by molecular dynamics simulation (MDS), absorption/emission spectrum analysis, and optical waveguide (OWG) detection. The affinities of porphyrin with seven types of substituents (-H, -OH, -tBu, -COOH, -NH", 
    "abstract": "Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulation is a computational method frequently used in biological and material sciences to efficiently model atomic and molecular interactions occurring in biological systems and effects of external stimuli on molecules and cells. In this study, M\u00a0-\u00a01 conotoxin protein was simulated under the oscillating (time-varying) electric fields of strengths 2e", 
    "abstract": "Pandemic COVID-19 infections have spread throughout the world. There is no effective treatment against this disease. Viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) catalyzes the replication of RNA from RNA and the main protease (M", 
    "abstract": "Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is a multi-drug resistant, gram-negative bacterium that causes opportunistic infections and is associated with high morbidity and mortality in severely immunocompromised individuals.\nThe study aimed to find out the drug target and a novel inhibitor for Stenotrophomonas maltophilia.\nThe current study focused on identifying specific drug targets by subtractive genomes analysis to determine the novel inhibitor for the specified target protein by virtual screening, molecular docking, and molecular simulation approach.\nIn this study, we performed a subtractive genomics approach to identify the novel drug target for S.maltophilia. After obtaining the specific target, the next step was to identify inhibitors that include calculating 2D similarity search, molecular docking, and molecular simulation for drug development for S.maltophilia.\nWith an efficient subtractive genomic approach, out of 4386 proteins, five unique targets were found, in which UDP-D-acetylmuramic (murF) was the most remarkable target. Further virtual screening, docking, and dynamics analyses resulted in the identification of seven novel inhibitors.\nFurther, in vitro and in vivo bioassay of the identified novel inhibitors could facilitate effective drug use against S.maltophilia.", 
    "abstract": "Proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase ROS-1 is one of the clinically important biomarker and plays a crucial role in regulation of a number of cellular functions including cell proliferation, migration and angiogenesis. Recently, inhibition of ROS1 kinase has proven to be a promising target of anticancer drugs for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The very few compounds have been used as potent drug molecules so far and the selective ROS1 inhibitors are relatively rare. Besides the currently available drugs such as Crizotinib and PF-06463922 are becoming sensitive due to mutations in the ROS1 protein. To curtail the problem of the resistant, present study was designed to identify the potent inhibitors against ROS1. Three different screening approaches such as structure based, Atom-based and pharmacophore based screening were carried out against commercially available databases and the retrieved best hits were further evaluated by Lipinski's filter. Thereafter the lead molecule was subjected to pocket specific docking with ROS1. The results show that, total of 9 molecules (3 from each screening) has good docking score (with range of -9.288 to -12.49\u2009Kcal/Mol) and binding interactions within the active site of ROS1. In order to analyze the stability of the ligand- protein complexes, molecular dynamics simulation was performed. Thus, these identified potential lead molecules with good binding score and binding affinity with ROS1 may act as the potent ROS1 inhibitor, and that are worth considering for further experimental studies.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "We synthesized Schiff base and its complexes derivatives of chitosan (CS) in order to develop antibiotic compounds based on functionalized-chitosan against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. IR, UV-Vis, AFM, SEM, Melting point, X-ray diffraction (XRD), elemental analysis, and ", 
    "abstract": "Gas boilers dominate domestic heating in the UK, and significant efficiency improvements have been associated with condensing boilers. However, the potential remains for further efficiency improvement by refining the control, system specification and installation in real dwellings. Dynamic building simulation modelling, including detailed heating system componentry, enables a deeper analysis of boiler underperformance. This paper explores the link between the space heat oversizing of boilers and on/off cycling using dynamic simulation, and their subsequent effect on boiler efficiency and internal temperatures. At plant size ratio (PSR) 8.5 daily cycles numbered over 50, similar to median levels seen in real homes. Simulations show that typical oversizing (PSR >3) significantly increases cycling behaviour and brings an efficiency penalty of 6-9%. There is a clear link between raising PSR, increased cycling and an associated decreased efficiency; however, in the UK, boilers are regularly oversized with respect to space heating, especially combination boilers to cover peak hot water demand. Current legislation and labelling (ErP and SAP) overlook PSR as a determinant of system efficiency, failing to incentivise appropriate sizing. Reducing boiler oversizing through addressing installation practices and certification has the potential to significantly improve efficiency at low cost, decreasing associated carbon emissions. ", 
    "abstract": "Attenuation of cathepsin B (CATB) proteolytic activity and/or inhibition serves as a potential therapeutic target in cancer metastasis. Herein, we determined the specificity of FDA approved potential anti-cancer natural flavonoid decursinol angelate (DA), thymol (TH) and a propionic acid derivative ibuprofen (IB), for the inactivation of CATB. We used enzymatic assay, computational and ", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to evaluate and understand the adsorption of eriochrome black T (EB) by chitosan extracted from local shrimp shells under different experimental conditions. Chitosan samples were characterized by XRD, SEM, and FTIR. Experimental results indicate that the process was pH-dependent with a high adsorption capacity in acidic medium. The adsorption was rapid and kinetic data were suitably correlated to the pseudo-second-order kinetic model. EB molecules were adsorbed on monolayer according to the Langmuir model with an adsorption capacity of 162.3\u00a0mg/g. On the other hand, it should be noted that calculated quantum chemical parameters support the experimentally obtained results. The interaction energies calculated for (molecule/chitosan) complexes were in the order of H", 
    "abstract": "Herbal bioactive compounds have captured pronounced attention considering their health-promoting effects as well as their functional properties. In this study, the binding mechanism between milk protein bovine \u03b2-lactoglobulin (\u03b2-LG), oleuropein (OLE) and safranal (SAF) found in olive leaf extract and saffron, respectively via spectroscopic and in silico studies. Fluorescence quenching information exhibited that interactions with both ligands were spontaneous and hydrophobic interactions were dominant. Also, the CD spectroscopy results demonstrated the increase in \u03b2-sheet structure and decrease in the \u03b1-helix content for both ligands. Size of \u03b2-LG-OLE complex was higher than \u03b2-LG-SAF due to the conformation and larger molecular size. Molecular docking and simulation studies revealed that SAF and OLE bind in the central calyx of \u03b2-LG and the surface of \u03b2-LG next to hydrophobic residues. Lastly, OLE formed a more stabilized complex compared to SAF based on the molecular dynamic simulation results.", 
    "abstract": "The main mechanism for drug-drug interaction is displacement reaction of ligands from their protein binding sites. The aim of this study was to evaluate anticancer drug sorafenib displacement from the binding site on human serum albumin by commonly used plant flavonoids quercetin and rutin. The interaction between bio-macromolecules and drugs can also cause changes in protein structure and therefore was evaluated in this study by spectroscopic and molecular dynamic simulation techniques. Serum albumin, the main protein in the plasma acts in the disposition of many drugs and therefore, is a model protein for investigating drug/ligand binding and alteration in the spectrophotometric and molecular docking properties of drug/ligand. All the studied ligands sorafenib, quercetin and rutin bind to HSA with different binding affinity. The displacement of ligands from their binding sites was inferred from comparison of quenching and binding constants of binary and ternary systems. Conformational changes in the HSA were found with UV-spectroscopic, circular dichroism, FT-IR and three dimensional studies. The molecular dynamic simulation studies suggest a stable complex formation between HSA and sorafenib. Binding studies for HSA-sorafenib in presence of quercetin and rutin indicated displacement of sorafenib from its binding site.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Based on molecular dynamic method, densities, mechanical behavior and mechanical performance of P(BAMO/ AMMO) (Polymer 1) and two novel modified P(BAMO/AMMO) (Polymer 2: containing amino group, Polymer 3: containing nitro group), and their effects on mechanical properties of four energetic materials are investigated, the main results are as follow: Polymer 2 (1.235\u00a0g/cm", 
    "abstract": "The present study aimed to identify potential SARS-CoV-2 inhibitory peptides from tuna protein by virtual screening. The molecular docking was performed to elicit the interaction mechanism between targets (M", 
    "abstract": "CXCL12 are small pro-inflammatory chemo-attractant cytokines that bind to a specific receptor CXCR4 with a role in angiogenesis, tumor progression, metastasis, and cell survival. Globally, cancer metastasis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. In this study, we targeted CXCL12 rather than the chemokine receptor (CXCR4) because most of the drugs failed in clinical trials due to unmanageable toxicities. Until now, no FDA approved medication has been available against CXCL12. Therefore, we aimed to find new inhibitors for CXCL12 through virtual screening followed by molecular dynamics simulation. For virtual screening, active compounds against CXCL12 were taken as potent inhibitors and utilized in the generation of a pharmacophore model, followed by validation against different datasets. Ligand based virtual screening was performed on the ChEMBL and ", 
    "abstract": "The repurposing of FDA approved drugs is presently receiving attention for COVID-19 drug discovery. Previous studies revealed the binding potential of several FDA-approved drugs towards specific targets of SARS-CoV-2; however, limited studies are focused on the structural and molecular basis of interaction of these drugs towards multiple targets of SARS-CoV-2. The present study aimed to predict the binding potential of six FDA drugs towards fifteen protein targets of SARS-CoV-2 and propose the structural and molecular basis of the interaction by molecular docking and dynamic simulation. Based on the literature survey, fifteen potential targets of SARS-CoV-2, and six FDA drugs (Chloroquine, Hydroxychloroquine, Favipiravir, Lopinavir, Remdesivir, and Ritonavir) were selected. The binding potential of individual drug towards the selected targets was predicted by molecular docking in comparison with the binding of the same drugs with their usual targets. The stabilities of the best-docked conformations were confirmed by molecular dynamic simulation and energy calculations. Among the selected drugs, Ritonavir and Lopinavir showed better binding towards the prioritized targets with minimum binding energy (kcal/mol), cluster-RMS, number of interacting residues, and stabilizing forces when compared with the binding of Chloroquine, Favipiravir, and Hydroxychloroquine, later drugs demonstrated better binding when compared to the binding with their usual targets. Remdesvir showed better binding to the prioritized targets in comparison with the binding of Chloroquine, Favipiravir, and Hydroxychloroquine, but showed lesser binding potential when compared to the interaction between Ritonavir and Lopinavir and the prioritized targets. The structural and molecular basis of interactions suggest that the FDA drugs can be repurposed towards multiple targets of SARS-CoV-2, and the present computational models provide insights on the scope of repurposed drugs against COVID-19.", 
    "abstract": "This dataset supports the research article \"Complete greenhouse dynamic simulation tool to assess the crop thermal well-being and energy needs\" [1]. In the agricultural sector, the use of energy can be very intensive [2] and the simulation of solar greenhouses is a very complex work [3]. This dataset provides the results of thermal modeling and dynamic simulation of a solar greenhouse considering simultaneously several thermal phenomena. The analysis was performed by TRNSYS 17 software (TRaNsient SYstem Simulation). The results obtained consider different phenomena that affect the thermal behavior of the greenhouse, including evapotranspiration produced by plants, heat exchange with the soil and the presence of artificial lights. Different models are presented for the calculation of the convective coefficient that best suits the presence of glass surfaces, considering the different discretization of the internal volume (single thermal zone and twenty thermal zones). The parameters that influence the thermal behavior of the greenhouse are analyzed on an hourly basis, the model has been validated with EnergyPlus. The data allow the researcher to choose a suitable greenhouse model in the case of free-floating model or in the presence of an air conditioning system.", 
    "abstract": "Recently, molecular dynamic simulation technique has been proved to be a powerful tool providing structural insights for better understanding the functionality of carbohydrates. Here, by using molecular dynamic simulation method we investigated the detailed conformational properties of the single-stranded curdlan with 12 glucose units. The results showed that the right-handed 6/1 helix structure was thermodynamically the most stable conformation in solution. The formation of the helix conformation was determined by many factors such as the glycosidic linkage, explicit water solvation and hydrogen bonds. When temperature was increased, the representative helix conformation was found becoming unstable giving rise to metastable conformations because when water mobility was accelerated with temperature, the hydrogen bonding strength between the curdlan chain and water went down, breaking the continuity of the hydrogen bonding network of water and hydroxyl groups. When the number of repeating glucose units varied from 6 to 24, the major helix conformation remained, but the conformational properties of longer chains were more apparently a\ufb00 ;ected by chain \ufb02exibility.", 
    "abstract": "The design of a vehicle frame is largely dependent on the loads applied on the suspension and heavy parts mounting points. These loads can either be estimated through full analytical multibody dynamic simulations, or from semi-analytical simulations in which tire and road sub-models are not included and external vehicle loads, recorded during field testing, are used as inputs to the wheel hubs. Several semi-analytical methods exist, with various modeling architectures, yet, it is unclear how one method over another improves frame loads prediction accuracy. This study shows that a semi-analytical method that constrains the vehicle frame center of gravity movement along a recorded trajectory, using a control algorithm, leads to an accuracy within 1% for predicting frame loads, when compared to reference loads from a full analytical model. The control algorithm computes six degrees of freedom forces and moments applied at the vehicle center of gravity to closely follow the recorded vehicle trajectory. It is also shown that modeling the flexibility of the suspension arms and controlling wheel hub angular velocity both contribute in improving frame loads accuracy, while an acquisition frequency of 200\u00a0Hz appears to be sufficient to capture load dynamics for several maneuvers. Knowledge of these loads helps engineers perform appropriate dimensioning of vehicle structural components therefore ensuring their reliability under various driving conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Most heavy metal exposure and pollution results from multiple industrial activities, including metal processing in refineries, and microelectronics. These issues pose a great threat to human health, ecological balance, and even societal stability. During 2012-2017, China, in particular, faced the challenge of 23 heavy metals accidents, six of which were extraordinarily serious accidents. Accidental environmental pollution is rarely caused by a single heavy metal, but rather by heavy metal mixtures. To address the need for a joint exposure risk assessment for heavy metal mixed pollution accidents at the watershed scale, a Copula-based exposure risk dynamic simulation model was proposed. A coupled hydrodynamic and accidental heavy metal exposure model is constructed for an hourly simulation of the exposure fate of heavy metals from each risk source once accidental leakage has occurred. The Copula analysis was introduced to calculate the dual heavy metal joint exposure probability in real time. This method was applied to an acute Cr", 
    "abstract": "This work aimed at evaluating the inhibitory effect of ten natural bioactive compounds (1-10) as potential inhibitors of SARS-CoV-2-3CL main protease (PDB ID: 6LU7) and SARS-CoV main proteases (PDB IDs: 2GTB and 3TNT) by molecular docking analysis. The inhibitory effect of all studied compounds was studied with compared to some proposed antiviral drugs which currently used in COVID-19 treatment such as chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, remdesivir, baloxvir, lopinavir, and favipiravir. Homology modeling and sequence alignment was computed to evaluate the similarity between the SARS-CoV-2-3CL main protease and other SARS-CoV receptors. ADMET properties of all studied compounds were computed and reported. Also, molecular dynamic (MD) simulation was performed on the compound which has the highest binding affinity inside 6LU7 obtained from molecular docking analysis to study it is stability inside receptor in explicit water solvent. Based on molecular docking analysis, we found that caulerpin has the highest binding affinity inside all studied receptors compared to other bioactive compounds and studied drugs. Our homology modeling and sequence alignment showed that SARS-CoV main protease (PDB ID: 3TNT) shares high similarity with 3CLpro (96.00%). Also, ADMET properties confirmed that caulerpin obeys Lipinski's rule and passes ADMET property, which make it a promising compound to act as a new safe natural drug against SARS-CoV-2-3CL main protease. Finally, MD simulation confirmed that the complex formed between caulerpin and 3CLpro is stable in water explicit and had no major effect on the flexibility of the protein throughout the simulations and provided a suitable basis for our study. Also, binding free energy between caulerpin and 6LU7 confirmed the efficacy of the caulerpin molecule against SARS-CoV-2 main protease. So, this study suggested that caulerpin could be used as a potential candidate in COVID-19 treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Inflammation is a key factor linked to almost all chronic and degenerative diseases implicit with certain levels of pain. In studies, over the past few years, it has been discovered that prostaglandins are the main cause of this inflammation and therefore could be blocked. Although no steroidal medications can be effective, natural compounds may offer a safer and often an effective alternative treatment for pain relief, especially for long-term use. Hence to find out natural anti-inflammatory compounds, we have highlighted five important butenolides that are eutypoid A, B, C, D and E with structure similar to that of rofecoxib, by ADMET and druglikeness analysis, followed by molecular docking with human COX-2 enzyme. Molecular docking studies revealed the importance of hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acid residues for the stability of the ligands and that eutypoids C and E are the best candidates for the synthetic drugs with binding energy of -10.39\u2009kcal/mol and -9.87\u2009kcal/mol, respectively. The resulting complexes were then subject to 50\u2009ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulation studies with the GROMACS package to analyze the stability of docked protein-ligand complexes and to assess the fluctuation and conformational changes during protein-ligand interaction. From the RMSD, RMSF, number of hydrogen bonds, SASA, PCA and MM/PBSA binding free energy analysis, we have found that out of five selected compounds eutypoid E showed good binding free energy of -174.45\u2009kJ/mol, which is also good in other structural analyses. This compound displayed excellent pharmacological and structural properties to be drug candidates.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "The rotary desiccant wheels application in the air conditioning systems are used for the air dehumidification by means of hygroscopic layers for water vapor adsorption. Nevertheless, external heat sources are required for water desorption to close the air treatment cycle. This paper investigates on the possibility to integrate in that cycle a new component, such as the ", 
    "abstract": "Myxovirus resistance (Mx) proteins are antiviral GTPases induced by type I interferons (IFNs). In chickens, a single Mx protein variant, S631N, has been suggested to possess antiviral activity. However, the impact of this variant on chicken Mx (chMx) protein structure and conformation has not been investigated. Hence, in this study, we applied computational methods such as molecular modeling, molecular dynamic simulation, inter domain motion and residue networks to examine the structure and dynamic behavior of wild-type and mutant chMx. At first, we built 3-dimensional structural models for both wild-type and mutant chMx proteins, which revealed that the structural organization of chMx was similar to that of human Mx proteins. Subsequently, molecular dynamics simulations revealed that angle variation around the hinge1 region led to the different stalk domain conformations between the wild-type and mutant chMx proteins. Domain motion analysis further suggested that the conformational differences in the loop region surrounded by the mutant residue may lead to an inclined stalk domain conformation in the mutant compared to the wild-type protein. In addition, we performed betweenness centrality analysis from residue interaction networks, to identify the crucial residues for intramolecular signal flow in chMx. The results of this study provided information on the differences in structure and dynamics between wild-type and mutant chMx, which may aid in understanding the structural features of the S631N mutant, that may be associated with chMx protein antiviral activity.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "UDP-N-acetylmuramic-alanine ligase (MurC) is an enzyme catalyzing the addition of L-alanine to UDP-acetylmuramoyl nucleotide precursor in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis). This enzyme is a prerequisite for the biosynthesis of the peptidoglycans in M. tuberculosis.\nThis study aimed to identify the novel inhibitors of MurC using in silico approach.\nThe three dimensional (3D) structure of MurC was determined using comparative modeling and based on the template obtained from Haemophilus influenza (1P31). The structural analysis of the model structure shown that three residues (Lys126, Glu170, and Glu358) are critical for in the catalytic activity of the enzyme, and their inhibition will block the function of the enzyme. Ten thousand and ninety-five (10095) compounds obtained through virtual screening against Zinc and PubChem databases based on their ability to bind to MurC with minimum binding energies. These ligands screened for the physicochemical properties, molecular docking, and pharmacokinetic analyses.\nSix compounds had desirable physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties with excellent binding energy ranged between -12.27 and -10.09\u00a0kcal/mol. These compounds subjected to Molecular Dynamic (MD) Simulation and Molecular Mechanics Generalized Born Surface Area (MM-GBSA) analyses. The outcome of the analysis revealed that four ligands (PubChem1548994, ZINC11882115, ZINC22241774, and ZINC12330603) formed a stable conformation in the substrate-binding site of the protein during the 50\u00a0ns MD simulation.\nTherefore, the ligands mentioned above might regard as novel inhibitors of M. tuberculosis which requires further in vitro and in vivo validation.", 
    "abstract": "The sudden outbreak of COVID-19 has been responsible for several deaths across the globe. Due to its high contagious nature, it spreads from one human to another very quickly. Now it becomes a global public health threat with no approved treatments. In silico techniques can accelerate the drug development process. Our research aimed to identify the novel drugs for inhibition of Main protease (Mpro) enzyme of COVID-19 by performing in silico approach. In this context, a library consisting of 3180 FDA-approved drugs from 'the ZINC database' was used to identify novel drug candidates against 'the Mpro' of SARS-CoV-2. Initially, the top 10 drugs out of 3180 drugs were selected by molecular docking according to their binding score. Among 10 selected drugs; seven drugs that showed binding with Mpro enzyme residue Glu166 were subjected to100\u2009ns Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. Out of seven compounds, four namely, ZINC03831201, ZINC08101052, ZINC01482077, and ZINC03830817 were found significant based on MD simulation results. Furthermore, RMSD, RMSF, RG, SASA, PCA, MMPBSA (for last 40\u2009ns) were calculated for the 100\u2009ns trajectory period. Currently, the world needs potent drugs in a short period and this work suggests that these four drugs could be used as novel drugs against COVID-19 and it also provides new lead compounds for further in\u00a0vitro, in\u00a0vivo, and ongoing clinical studies against SARS-CoV-2.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "Literature reported that nsp3 of CHIKV is an important target for the designing of drug as it involves in the replication, survival etc. Herein, about eighteen million molecules available in the ZINC database are filtered against nsp3 using RASPD. Top five hit drug molecules were then taken from the total screened molecules (6988) from ZINC database. Then, a one pot-three components reaction is designed to get the pyrazolophthalazine and its formation was studied using DFT method. Authors created a library of 200 compounds using the product obtained in the reaction and filtered against nsp3 of CHIKV based on docking using iGEMDOCK, a computational tool. Authors have studied the best molecules after applying the the Lipinski's rule of five and bioactive score. Further, the authors took the best compound i.e. CMPD178 and performed the MD simulations and tdMD simulations with nsp3 protease using AMBER18. MD trajectories were studied to collect the information about the nsp3 of CHIKV with and without screened compound and then, MM-GBSA calculations were performed to calculate change in binding free energies for the formation of complex. The aim of the work is to find the potential candidate as promising inhibitor against nsp3 of CHIKV.", 
    "abstract": "This study is about proposing a vaccine for all four strains of dengue virus (DENV) that could be an important approach for reaching the WHO goal of reducing dengue morbidity and mortality. The significance of the DENV envelope proteins III lies in the fact that it elicits an immune response and hence can be a potential vaccine design candidate. This domain appears to play a key role in the host cell receptor binding for viral entry and in inducing long lasting protective immunity against the infection. We used long molecular dynamic simulation and mutagenesis scanning methods to provide the dynamic environment and propose the potential mutation that may result in enhancing the binding specificity and affinity of the antigen-antibody (Ag-Ab) complex. The binding free energetics were also estimated using free energy perturbation method. One charged mutation that is theorinine 93L to arginine interacting with epitopic glutamic acid 368 strongly contributing in increasing the binding affinity as well as specificity, predicted as -9.6\u2009kcal/mol gain in 2H12-Fab with dengue envelope domain III binding free energy relative to the wild-type. In conclusion, the one charged residue that showed theoretically enhances the binding affinity of Ag-Ab complex by making couple of interactions i.e. by substituting theorinine to arginine in the antibody chains and can be considered as potential dengue vaccine candidate.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "This article investigates a family of approximate solutions for the fractional model (in the Liouville-Caputo sense) of the Ebola virus via an accurate numerical procedure (Chebyshev spectral collocation method). We reduce the proposed epidemiological model to a system of algebraic equations with the help of the properties of the Chebyshev polynomials of the third kind. Some theorems about the convergence analysis and the existence-uniqueness solution are stated. Finally, some numerical simulations are presented for different values of the fractional-order and the other parameters involved in the coefficients. We also note that we can apply the proposed method to solve other models.", 
    "abstract": "Road transportation poses one of the significant public health risks. Several contributors and factors strongly link public health and road safety. The design and advancement of higher-quality roads can significantly contribute to safer roads and save lives. In this article, the safety aspect of the roads' horizontal curves under the standard of the American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) is evaluated. Several factors, including vehicle weight, vehicle dimensions, longitudinal grades, and vehicle speed in the geometric design of the horizontal curves, are investigated through a multi-body dynamic simulation process. According to the AASHTO, a combination of simple circular and clothoid transition curves with various longitudinal upgrades and downgrades was designed. Three vehicles were used in this simulation, including a sedan, a bus, and a 3-axle truck. The analysis was based on the lateral friction between the tire and the pavement and also the safety margin parameter. The results showed that designers must differentiate between light and heavy vehicles, especially in curves with a high radius. Evaluation of longitudinal grade impacts indicated that the safety margin decreases when the vehicle is entering the curve. Safety margin reduction on the clothoid curve takes place with a lower grade toward the simple circular curve. By increasing the speed, the difference between lateral friction demand obtained from simulation and lateral friction demand proposed by AASHTO grows. The proposed novel methodology can be used for evaluating road safety.", 
    "abstract": "A series of 2-chloro-5-[(4-chlorophenyl)sulfamoyl]-", 
    "abstract": "[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1186/s13068-020-01752-6.].", 
    "abstract": "Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles have been synthesized using chain length of (3-aminopropyl) triethoxysilane for cancer therapy. First, we have developed a layer by layer functionalized with grafting 2,4-toluene diisocyanate as a bi-functional covalent linker onto a nano-Fe", 
    "abstract": "This paper investigates the conformational stability of porcine pancreatic lipase (PPL) in three non-aqueous organic solvents, including dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), propylene glycol (PRG), and ethanol (EtOH) through molecular dynamic (MD) simulation. The root mean square deviations (RMSDs), radius of gyration (Rg), solution accessible surface area (SASA), radial distribution function (RDF), hydrogen bond (H-bond), Ramachandran plot analysis, secondary structure, and enzyme substrate affinity of the PPL in the various organic solvents were comparatively investigated. The results showed that the backbone and active pocket RMSD, and hydrophilic ASA of PPL in three solvents increase with the increase in the solvent LogP, while the Rg, hydrophobic ASA, and H-bond between the solvent and PPL decrease. Among the three organic solvents, DMSO acts as a better solvent, in which the PPL can be loose and extended, and retains its native backbone in DMSO compared to PRG and EtOH. Moreover, Ramachandran plot analysis indicated that the PPL structure quality in DMSO was higher than that in PRG and EtOH. Also, the molecular docking results showed that PPL in DMSO exhibited the highest enzyme-substrate affinity.", 
    "abstract": "The pathogen Legionella longbeachae is a causative agent of legionellosis. The antibiotic resistance is the major problem of this modern world. Thus, selective pressure warrants the need for identification of newer drug target. In current study, subtractive proteomics approach screen out SIS (sugar isomerase) domain protein as an attractive receptor molecule for rational drug design. This protein is involved in lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis and catalyzes the isomerization of sedoheptulose 7-phosphate in D-glycero-D-manno-heptose 7-phosphate. Molecular docking revealed compound 1 (2-(6-(N,N-dimethyl sulfamoyl)pipridin-4-yl)pyrazin-2-yl)imidazol-3-ium-1-ide) as the potent inhibitor having GOLD fitness score of 69. The complex is affirmed by half-site effect via simulation analysis. Complex stability was investigated via several approaches that follows dynamic simulation and binding energies. Trajectory analysis revealed slight change in ring positioning of inhibitor inside the active pocket during 130\u00a0ns (nanosecond). Interestingly, it was affirmed via binding interactions' density distribution. Hence, radial distribution function (RDF) inferred that SER55 and SER83 are the major residues that take part in hydrogen bonding and complex stability. Furthermore, an indigenously developed method axial frequency distribution (AFD) has revealed that ligand moved closer to the active site with both the residues SER55 and SER83 binding to the ligand. The phenomena was observed via rotating motion with respect to receptor center cavity. Thus, inhibitor movement towards allosteric site was observed at the end of simulations. Finally, binding free energy calculations by MMPB/GBSA predicts high compound affinity for the complex. Hence, findings from the current study will aid in the novel drug discovery and future experimental studies. Graphical abstract.", 
    "abstract": "Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-\u03b1), a multifunctional cytokine responsible for providing resistance against infections, inflammation, and cancers. TNF-\u03b1 has emerged as a promising drug target against several autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. Several synthetic antibodies (Infliximab, Etanercept, and Adalimumab) are available, but their potential to cause severe side effects has prompted them to develop alternative small molecules-based therapies for inhibition of TNF-\u03b1. In the present study, combined in silico approaches based on pharmacophore modeling, virtual screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics studies were employed to understand significant direct interactions between TNF-\u03b1 protein and small molecule inhibitors. Initially, four different small molecule libraries (\u223c17.5 million molecules) were virtually screened against the selected pharmacophore model. The identified hits were further subjected to molecular docking studies. The three potent lead compounds (", 
    "abstract": "Microbial communities are pervasive in the natural environment, associated with many hosts, and of increasing importance in biotechnological applications. The complexity of these microbial systems makes the underlying mechanisms driving their dynamics difficult to identify. While experimental meta-OMICS techniques are routinely applied to record the inventory and activity of microbiomes over time, it remains difficult to obtain quantitative predictions based on such data. Mechanistic, quantitative mathematical modeling approaches hold the promise to both provide predictive power and shed light on cause-effect relationships driving these dynamic systems. We introduce \u03bcbialSim (pronounced \"microbial sim\"), a dynamic Flux-Balance-Analysis-based (dFBA) numerical simulator which is able to predict the time course in terms of composition and activity of microbiomes containing 100s of species in batch or chemostat mode. Activity of individual species is simulated by using separate FBA models which have access to a common pool of compounds, allowing for metabolite exchange. A novel augmented forward Euler method ensures numerical accuracy by temporarily reducing the time step size when compound concentrations decrease rapidly due to high compound affinities and/or the presence of many consuming species. We present three exemplary applications of \u03bcbialSim: a batch culture of a hydrogenotrophic archaeon, a syntrophic methanogenic biculture, and a 773-species human gut microbiome which exhibits a complex and dynamic pattern of metabolite exchange. Focusing on metabolite exchange as the main interaction type, \u03bcbialSim allows for the mechanistic simulation of microbiomes at their natural complexity. Simulated trajectories can be used to contextualize experimental meta-OMICS data and to derive hypotheses on cause-effect relationships driving community dynamics based on scenario simulations. \u03bcbialSim is implemented in Matlab and relies on the COBRA Toolbox or CellNetAnalyzer for FBA calculations. The source code is available under the GNU General Public License v3.0 at https://git.ufz.de/UMBSysBio/microbialsim.", 
    "abstract": "This study was conducted to examine the influence of annealing rates on coating and oxidation performances of Aluminium (Al) nanoparticle (ANP) by molecular dynamic (MD) simulations. Four levels of cooling rates were utilized on melted ANP to obtain annealed ANP models with different microstructures. Then those nanoparticles were placed into pure diethyl ether or oxygen gas environments to perform coating and oxidation simulations respectively. It was revealed that there was a relatively optimal annealing condition for ANP models to recover the initial microstructure of themselves as much as possible. The ether coating behaviour of annealed ANP model under this condition was better than other models. In contrast, the oxidation of all different models was almost the same. So, the factor of the annealing rate had little effect on the oxidation results. Along with the growth of the oxide layer, the core of ANP still kept its annealed microstructure.", 
    "abstract": "Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become a global concern due to its extreme resistance to most of the last resort antibiotics. Present study focuses on the screening of potential molecular targets involved in regulation of biofilm formation in P. aeruginosa and identification of potential natural lead molecules against these targets by molecular modelling, docking and simulation studies. Response regulator (GacA) and transcriptional activator (RhlR) involved in biofilm formation in P. aeruginosa were identified as molecular targets by metabolic pathway analysis and the three dimensional structures of these proteins were predicted by homology modelling and validated. By thorough literature survey, 78 lead molecules were screened and their pharmacokinetic profiles were determined and best two of them selected. The binding potential of selected lead molecules against GacA and RhlR were predicted by molecular docking and their binding energy was compared with the interaction of meropenem and its usual target penicillin binding protein-3. The stabilities of best docked complex were studied by molecular dynamic (MD) simulation. This study showed that Celastrol present in Celastrus paniculatus and Rotiorinol present in Chaetomium cupreum showed better binding affinities with GacA (binding energy -7.2\u00a0kcal/mol) and RhlR (binding energy -8.0\u00a0kcal/mol) respectively in comparison with the binding of Meropenem and its target (binding energy -6.2\u00a0kcal/mol). MD simulation studies showed that GacA-Celastrol and RhlR-Rotiorinol complexes demonstrated conformational stability throughout the simulation. This study highlights the application of GacA and RhlR as prospective targets and Celastrol and Rotiorinol are the potential lead molecules towards biofilm producing drug resistant P. aeruginosa.", 
    "abstract": "The simultaneous and effective conversion of both pentose and hexose in fermentation is a critical and challenging task toward the lignocellulosic economy. This study aims to investigate the feasibility of an innovative co-fermentation process featuring with a cell recycling unit (CF/CR) for mixed sugar utilization. A l-lactic acid-producing strain \nSignificant carbon catabolite repression in co-fermentation using a glucose/xylose mixture was overcome by replacing glucose with cellobiose, and the ratio of consumed pentose to consumed hexose increased significantly from 0.096 to 0.461 by mass. An outstanding product concentration of 65.2\u00a0g\u00a0L\nCell retention time played a critical role in balancing pentose and hexose consumption, cell decay, and lactic acid production in the CF/CR process. With increasing cell concentration, consumption of mixed sugars increased with the productivity of the final product; hence, the impact of substrate inhibition was reduced. With the validated parameters, the model showed the highest accuracy simulating the CF/CR process, and significantly longer cell retention times compared to hydraulic retention time were tested.", 
    "abstract": "A new series of 1,2,3-triazole-(thio)barbituric acid hybrids 8a-n was designed and synthesized on the basis of potent pharmacophores with urease inhibitory activity. Therefore, these compounds were evaluated against Helicobacter pylori urease. The obtained result demonstrated that all the synthesized compounds, 8a-n, were more potent than the standard urease inhibitor, hydroxyurea. Moreover, among them, compounds 8a, 8c-e, 8g,h, and 8k,l exhibited higher urease inhibitory activities than the other standard inhibitor used: thiourea. Docking studies were performed with the synthesized compounds. Furthermore, molecular dynamic simulation of the most potent compounds, 8e and 8l, showed that these compounds interacted with the conserved residues Cys592 and His593, which belong to the active site flap and are essential for enzymatic activity. These interactions have two consequences: (a) blocking the movement of a flap at the entrance of the active site channel and (b) stabilizing the closed active site flap conformation, which significantly reduces the catalytic activity of urease. Calculation of the physicochemical and topological properties of the synthesized compounds 8a-n predicted that all these compounds can be orally active. The ADME prediction of compounds 8a-n was also performed.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, the spectroscopic methods (UV-vis, fluorimetric), Atomic force microscopy, and computational studies (molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation) were used to investigate the interaction of [SnMe", 
    "abstract": "G Protein-Coupled Receptor gains more importance in cancer research; because of their key role in several physiologic functions of cells. However, most of the GPCR's are orphan receptors, this hampers the finding of drugs against GPCR. G Protein-Coupled Receptor 116 is an adhesion orphan receptor that intensifies the invasion of cells in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. In this study, existing FDA approved anticancer drugs were chosen as ligands and molecular docking was performed using ", 
    "abstract": "Xylooligosaccharides (XOS) such as xylobiose and xylotriose are prebiotics with important functions and relevance and the study of interaction mechanism between these substrate and their respective enzymes has scope and applications. Thus, the present study aimed to decipher the interaction mechanisms of xylose isomerase (XylA) and xylokinase (XylB) towards their xylo-substrates namely xylobiose and xylotriose by computational modeling and molecular dynamic simulation studies. The three-dimensional structures of XylA and XylB, not available in their native forms, were predicted, energy minimized and validated by various computational biology tools and software. The binding mechanisms of xylobiose and xylotriose towards XylA and XylB were modeled by molecular docking and the stability of the docked complexes was confirmed by molecular dynamic (MD) simulation. The current study suggested that the theoretical models of XylA and XylB possessed good stereo-chemical validity, structural stabilities and minimum energy conformers. The molecular docking studied showed that xylotriose showed better binding interactions to XylA than xylobiose and xylobiose showed better binding interaction to XylB than xylotriose with ideal root mean square deviation (RMS), minimum binding energy (kcal/mol), hydrogen bonding and weak interactions. The MD simulation confirmed the stabilities of the docked complexes predicted by docking studies. The study suggested that interactions between the probiotics and prebiotics and provides the novel insights in exploring synbiotics as functional foods towards their futuristic applications. [Formula: see text]HighlightsThis study deciphers the interactions of xylosubstrates to XylA and XylB.The XylA and XylB possessed ideal structural stability and stereochemistryXylotriose and Xylobiose showed significant interactionsThe interactions of Xylotriose-XylA and Xylobiose-XylB were found stable in MD studies.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.", 
    "abstract": "The research about finding the effective membrane material is in progress; however, there are pros and cons for each material. Graphene membrane is a single layer of atoms in a two-dimensional hexagonal lattice which achieved high performance in water purification field. Addition of TiO", 
    "abstract": "The main objective of the study was to develop the Quantitative Structure- Activity Relationship (QSAR) and pharmacophore model by using data obtained from HT-29 cells to develop potent lead molecule for the scientific community.\nCommon pharmacophore model, atom-based 3D-QSAR, and molecular dynamic (MD) simulation were carried out via computational techniques by using 4H-chromene derivatives.\nThe reliable common pharmacophoric hypothesis, DHH13 was generated and 3.95 survival value was also found. Furthermore, the statistically significant 3D-QSAR model was developed where r\nThe outcome of this design shows that the pharmacophore model and 3D-QSAR might be helpful for researchers in the field of medicinal chemistry to design and develop potential anti colon cancer compounds.", 
    "abstract": "Hyperglycemia in pregnancy (HIP, including gestational diabetes and pre-existing type 1 and type 2 diabetes) is increasing, with associated risks to the health of women and their babies. Strategies to manage and prevent this condition are contested. Dynamic simulation models (DSM) can test policy and program scenarios before implementation in the real world. This paper reports the development and use of an advanced DSM exploring the impact of maternal weight status interventions on incidence of HIP.\nA consortium of experts collaboratively developed a hybrid DSM of HIP, comprising system dynamics, agent-based and discrete event model components. The structure and parameterization drew on a range of evidence and data sources. Scenarios comparing population-level and targeted prevention interventions were simulated from 2018 to identify the intervention combination that would deliver the greatest impact.\nPopulation interventions promoting weight loss in early adulthood were found to be effective, reducing the population incidence of HIP by 17.3% by 2030 (baseline ('business as usual' scenario)=16.1%, 95%\u2009CI 15.8 to 16.4; population intervention=13.3%, 95%\u2009CI 13.0 to 13.6), more than targeted prepregnancy (5.2% reduction; incidence=15.3%, 95%\u2009CI 15.0 to 15.6) and interpregnancy (4.2% reduction; incidence=15.5%, 95%\u2009CI 15.2 to 15.8) interventions. Combining targeted interventions for high-risk groups with population interventions promoting healthy weight was most effective in reducing HIP incidence (28.8% reduction by 2030; incidence=11.5, 95%\u2009CI 11.2 to 11.8). Scenarios exploring the effect of childhood weight status on entry to adulthood demonstrated significant impact in the selected outcome measure for glycemic regulation, insulin sensitivity in the short term and HIP in the long term.\nPopulation-level weight reduction interventions will be necessary to 'turn the tide' on HIP. Weight reduction interventions targeting high-risk individuals, while beneficial for those individuals, did not significantly impact forecasted HIP incidence rates. The importance of maintaining interventions promoting healthy weight in childhood was demonstrated.", 
    "abstract": "The objective of this article is to describe the unique challenges and present potential solutions and approaches for economic evaluations of precision medicine (PM) interventions using simulation modeling methods.\nGiven the large and growing number of PM interventions and applications, methods are needed for economic evaluation of PM that can handle the complexity of cascading decisions and patient-specific heterogeneity reflected in the myriad testing and treatment pathways. Traditional approaches (eg, Markov models) have limitations, and other modeling techniques may be required to overcome these challenges. Dynamic simulation models, such as discrete event simulation and agent-based models, are used to design and develop mathematical representations of complex systems and intervention scenarios to evaluate the consequence of interventions over time from a systems perspective.\nSome of the methodological challenges of modeling PM can be addressed using dynamic simulation models. For example, issues regarding companion diagnostics, combining and sequencing of tests, and diagnostic performance of tests can be addressed by capturing patient-specific pathways in the context of care delivery. Issues regarding patient heterogeneity can be addressed by using patient-level simulation models.\nThe economic evaluation of PM interventions poses unique methodological challenges that might require new solutions. Simulation models are well suited for economic evaluation in PM because they enable patient-level analyses and can capture the dynamics of interventions in complex systems specific to the context of healthcare service delivery.", 
    "abstract": "Soft robots are primarily composed of soft materials that can allow for mechanically robust maneuvers that are not typically possible with conventional rigid robotic systems. However, owing to the current limitations in simulation, design and control of soft robots often involve a painstaking trial. With the ultimate goal of a computational framework for soft robotic engineering, here we introduce a numerical simulation tool for limbed soft robots that draws inspiration from discrete differential geometry based simulation of slender structures. The simulation incorporates an implicit treatment of the elasticity of the limbs, inelastic collision between a soft body and rigid surface, and unilateral contact and Coulombic friction with an uneven surface. The computational efficiency of the numerical method enables it to run faster than real-time on a desktop processor. Our experiments and simulations show quantitative agreement and indicate the potential role of predictive simulations for soft robot design.", 
