    "abstract": "Central Asia is known to face various ecological challenges that constitutes major risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD). This study examines the burden of PD in Central Asia, a region where data on neurological disorders is notably sparse.\nBuilding on the latest Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD 2021), this study investigates the Years of Life Lost (YLLs), Years Lived with Disability (YLDs), and Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) associated with PD in Central Asia and its countries from 1990 to 2021. The authors calculated average annual percent change (AAPC) to analyze trends, and compared individual country estimates to global figures. Additionally, incorporating data from the World Bank, both Bayesian hierarchical and non-hierarchical frequentist regression models were employed to assess their impact on DALYs.\nThe DALYs varied across the study period, primarily driven by YLLs. While YLLs showed a uniform trend, YLDs were mostly incremental. Kazakhstan had the highest estimates across all metrics and was the only country aligned with global patterns. Age- and sex-specific estimates revealed substantial variations, with notably high figures found in male subjects from Tajikistan. The YLLs, YLDs, and DALYs for Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan saw a significant increase in AAPCs. In contrast, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan saw declines, likely attributable to civic conflict and inter-country differences in population structure. Further comparison of DALY trends revealed significant deviations for all countries from the global pattern.\nThis study showed an overall increase in PD burden from 1990 to 2021. These findings underscore the need for targeted strategies to reduce PD burden, with a particular focus on Kazakhstan. Integrating historical information is crucial for discussing the plausible mechanisms in studies sourced from the GBD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder marked by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. While current treatments primarily manage symptoms, there is increasing interest in alternative approaches, particularly the use of phytochemicals from medicinal plants. These natural compounds have demonstrated promising neuroprotective potential in preclinical studies by targeting key pathological mechanisms such as oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and protein aggregation. However, the clinical translation of these phytochemicals is limited due to a lack of robust clinical trials evaluating their safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the neuroprotective potential of phytochemicals in PD management, examining the mechanisms underlying PD pathogenesis and emphasizing neuroprotection. It explores the historical and current research on medicinal plants like Mucuna pruriens, Curcuma longa, and Ginkgo biloba, and discusses the challenges in clinical translation, including ethical and practical considerations and the integration with conventional therapies. It further underscores the need for future research to elucidate mechanisms of action, optimize drug delivery, and conduct rigorous clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of phytochemicals, aiming to shape future neuroprotective strategies and develop more effective, personalized treatments for PD.", 
    "abstract": "Astrocytes are the most abundant cells in the brain and show neuroprotective function in CNS and reactive astrocytes are characteristic in neurodegenerative diseases. The JAK2-STAT3 pathway plays a crucial role in the process of astrocyte activation. However, as a hallmark of Parkinson's disease, the change in \u03b1-syn under the influence of STAT3 inhibitor and the underlying cellular mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we show that PFF can induce an increase in \u03b1-syn in SVG p12 cells, which is further enhanced after the inhibition of STAT3. The underlying mechanisms involve the downregulation of autophagy levels and a concurrent decrease in lysosomal function after inhibition of STAT3. Additionally, we observed inhibition of STAT3 resulted in reduced exosome secretion in SVG p12 cells. This is attributed to alterations in SNARE, leading to impaired fusion between MVBs and the cell membrane, subsequently causing the accumulation of intracellular MVBs. Taken together, our data demonstrates that inhibition of STAT3 decreases both the autophagy and lysosome function, which may increase MVBs production. However, we found a potentially decreased exosome production that may be implicated with SNARE complex and need further exploration.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease-associated, activating mutations in the LRRK2 kinase block primary cilium formation in cell culture and in specific cell types in the brain. In the striatum that is important for movement control, about half of astrocytes and cholinergic interneurons, but not the predominant medium spiny neurons, lose their primary cilia. Here, we show that mouse and human striatal parvalbumin interneurons that are inhibitory regulators of movement also lose primary cilia. Without cilia, these neurons are not able to respond to Sonic hedgehog signals that normally induce the expression of Patched RNA, and their numbers decrease. In addition, in mouse, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-related Neurturin RNA is significantly decreased. These experiments highlight the importance of parvalbumin neurons in cilium-dependent, neuroprotective signaling pathways and show that LRRK2 activation correlates with decreased Neurturin production, resulting in less neuroprotection for dopamine neurons.", 
    "abstract": "To verify the usefulness of three evaluation methods of short-time neuromelanin MRI, correlations between each method and the specific binding ratio (SBR) of dopamine transporter scintigraphy were investigated.\nShort-time neuromelanin MRI was used to measure the contents of melanin-containing cells in the midbrain substantia nigra based on the following methods. Method 1 evaluates the volume of the high-signal area of the midbrain substantia nigra. Method 2 evaluates the signal intensity ratio of the three dense areas of the midbrain substantia nigra. Method 3 evaluates the scoring of the data of Method 2. The subjects were 54 patients aged 60 years or older who underwent head MRI and DAT scan at the Department of Radiology of our hospital.\nSignificant correlations were found between the data of SBR and each of the three evaluation methods.\nAll of our three methods to evaluate short-time neuromelanin MRI were considered to be useful in estimating the content of melanin-containing cells in the midbrain substantia nigra, showing the most effectiveness in Method 1.", 
    "abstract": "Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are chronic conditions that affect the aging population, with increasing prevalence globally. The rising prevalence of comorbidity between these conditions, driven by demographic shifts, severely impacts the quality of life of patients, posing a significant burden on healthcare resources. Chinese herbal medicine has been used to treat T2DM and PD for millennia. Pharmacological studies have demonstrated that medicinal herbs effectively lower blood glucose levels and exert neuroprotective effects, suggesting their potential as adjunctive therapy for concurrent management of T2DM and PD.\nTo elucidate the shared mechanisms underlying T2DM and PD, particularly focusing on the potential mechanisms by which medicinal herbs (including herbal formulas, single herbs, and active compounds) may treat these diseases, to provide valuable insights for developing therapeutics targeting comorbid T2DM and PD.\nStudies exploring the mechanisms underlying T2DM and PD, as well as the treatment of these conditions with medicinal herbs, were extracted from several electronic databases, including PubMed, Web of Science, Google Scholar, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI).\nNumerous studies have shown that inflammation, oxidative stress, insulin resistance, impaired autophagy, gut microbiota dysbiosis, and ferroptosis are shared mechanisms underlying T2DM and PD mediated through the NLRP3 inflammasome, NF-\u03baB, MAPK, Keap1/Nrf2/ARE, PI3K/AKT, AMPK/SIRT1, and System XC\nTraditional Chinese medicine effectively combats T2DM and PD through shared pathological mechanisms, highlighting their potential for application in treating these comorbid conditions.", 
    "abstract": "The progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra region of the brain leads to a deficiency of dopamine and, ultimately, the onset of Parkinson's disease (PD). Since there is currently no cure for PD, patients all around the world are dealing with symptomatic management. PD progression is influenced by multiple elements, such as environmental, biological, chemical, genetic, and epigenetic factors. Epigenetics is gaining increased attention due to its role in controlling the expression of genes that contribute to PD. Recent advancements in our understanding of the brain network and its related conditions have shown that alterations in gene expression may occur independently of genetic abnormalities. Therefore, a thorough investigation has been carried out to explore the significance of epigenetics in all degenerative disorders. Epigenetic modifications are essential for regulating cellular homeostasis. Therefore, a deeper understanding of these modifications might provide valuable insights into many diseases and potentially serve as targets for therapeutic interventions. This review article focuses on diverse epigenetic alterations linked to the progression of PD. These abnormalities are supported by numerous research on the control of gene expression and encompass all the epigenetic processes. The beginning of PD is intricately associated with aberrant DNA methylation mechanisms. DNA methyltransferases are the enzymes that create and preserve various DNA methylation patterns. Integrating epigenetic data with existing clinical methods for diagnosing PD may aid in discovering potential curative medicines and novel drug development approaches. This article solely addresses the importance of epigenetic modulators in PD, primarily the mechanisms of DNMTs, their roles in the development of PD, and their therapeutic approaches; it bypasses other PD therapies.", 
    "abstract": "Pesticide residues, resulting from agricultural practices, pose significant health and environmental risks. This review synthesizes the current understanding of pesticide impacts on the immune system, highlighting their role in chronic diseases such as asthma, diabetes, Parkinson's disease (PD) and cancer. We emphasize the significant role of omics technologies in the study of pesticide toxicity mechanisms. The integration of genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and epigenomics offers a multidimensional strategy for a comprehensive assessment of pesticide effects, facilitating personalized risk management and policy formulation. We advocate for stringent regulatory policies, public education, and global cooperation to enhance food safety and environmental sustainability. By adopting a unified approach, we aim to mitigate the risks of pesticide residues, ensuring human health and ecological balance are preserved.", 
    "abstract": "Aggressiveness and negative emotions in dreams reports of patients with alfa-synucleinopathies have been associated with cognitive dysfunction. Observation of dream enactment episodes could be a more precise method to capture dream content in patients with REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD). Our objective was to assess the relation between aggressive and emotional dream enactment episodes in patients with RBD and cognition and depression/anxiety. Motor events (ME) during REM sleep were classified by visual inspection of video-PSG files. Cognition and anxiety/depression were assessed with MoCA and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), respectively. Multivariate regression analysis was performed, with MoCA or HADS scores as predictors, age and DED as co-variates and aggressive, negative and positive ME frequency (raw values, per total and per complex indexes) as the dependent variable. We included 15 patients with isolated RBD and 12 and 4 with RBD associated with Parkinson's disease and Dementia with Lewy Bodies, respectively. They presented a total of 873\u00a0ME. There was a significant positive association between HADS score and violent/complex and negative emotion/complex indexes. There was a significant positive association between MoCA score and violent/complex index. A significant correlation between depression/anxiety severity and negative emotion and aggression ME frequency agrees with the dream continuity hypothesis and suggests that REM sleep acts as a regulator of emotional experience. Patients with a higher prevalence of aggressive ME had higher scores in cognitive testing, suggesting that the elaboration of these complex movements could depend on the integrity of cognitive functions.", 
    "abstract": "To explore the association of motor reserve (MR) and clinical progression in Parkinson's disease.\nThis longitudinal study using data from the Parkinson's progression markers initiative. Patients with de novo PD who underwent dopamine transporter scans at baseline and finished at least five years clinical follow-up assessments (including motor, cognitive, and non-motor symptoms) were included. The individual MR of PD patients were estimated based on initial motor deficits and striatal dopamine depletion using a residual model. Linear mixed-effects models (LME) were performed to examine the associations of baseline MR and clinical progression.\nA total of 303 de novo PD patients were included and the mean follow-up time was 8.95\u00a0years. Results of LME models revealed that the baseline MR was associated with motor, cognitive, and non-motor symptoms in PD patients. There was a significant interaction between MR and disease duration for longitudinal changes in motor (p\u00a0<\u00a00.001), cognitive (p\u00a0=\u00a00.028) and depression symptoms (p\u00a0=\u00a00.014). PD patients with lower MR had a more rapid progression to postural instability and cognitive impairment compared with those with higher MR (p\u00a0=\u00a00.002 and p\u00a0=\u00a00.001, respectively).\nThe baseline MR of PD patients were associated with motor and non-motor symptoms and can predicted disease prognosis, suggesting that the initial MR in PD would be associated with the individual's capacity to cope with neurodegenerative process as well as comprehensive prognosis.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by the loss of dopaminergic neurons and the consequent decline in motor and cognitive functions. The primary therapeutic agent levodopa necessitates precise dosing due to its narrow therapeutic window and complex pharmacokinetics. This study presents the development of a novel CuCoFe-LDHzyme-based sweat sensor for real-time monitoring of levodopa concentration in PD patients. Employing differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) technique, the sensor demonstrates high sensitivity and selectivity, achieving a detection limit of 28.1\u00a0nM. The sensor's design allows for non-invasive, continuous monitoring, significantly enhancing patient convenience compared to traditional blood sampling methods. Through pH correction, precise quantification of levodopa in sweat is accomplished, and a strong correlation (Pearson coefficient\u00a0=\u00a00.833) with blood levodopa levels is established. The pharmacokinetic profile of levodopa is reconstructed in real-time, offering a promising tool for optimizing PD treatment regimens. This study highlights the potential of CuCoFe-LDHzyme sensors to advance personalized treatment strategies, aiming to improve the quality of life for PD patients by providing clinicians with real-time data for medication adjustments.", 
    "abstract": "Transcranial sonography-based grading of Parkinson's Disease has gained increasing attention in recent years, and it is currently used for assistive differential diagnosis in some specialized centers. To this end, accurate midbrain segmentation is considered an important initial step. However, current practice is manual, time-consuming, and bias-prone due to the subjective nature. Relevant studies in the literature are scarce and lacks comprehensive model evaluations from application perspectives. Herein, we aimed to benchmark the best-performing U-Net model for objective, stable and robust midbrain auto-segmentation using transcranial sonography images.\nA total of 584 patients who were suspected of Parkinson's Disease were retrospectively enrolled from Beijing Tiantan Hospital. The dataset was divided into training (n = 416), validation (n = 104), and testing (n = 64) sets. Three state-of-the-art deep-learning networks (U-Net, U-Net+++, and nnU-Net) were utilized to develop segmentation models, under 5-fold cross-validation and three randomization seeds for safeguarding model validity and stability. Model evaluation was conducted in testing set in three key aspects: (i) segmentation agreement using DICE coefficients (DICE), Intersection over Union (IoU), and Hausdorff Distance (HD); (ii) model stability using standard deviations of segmentation agreement metrics; (iii) prediction time efficiency, and (iv) model robustness against various degrees of ultrasound imaging noise produced by the salt-and-pepper noise and Gaussian noise.\nThe nnU-Net achieved the best segmentation agreement (averaged DICE: 0.910, IoU: 0.836, HD: 2.793-mm) and time efficiency (1.456-s). Under mild noise corruption, the nnU-Net outperformed others with averaged scores of DICE (0.904), IoU (0.827), HD (2.941 mm) in the salt-and-pepper noise (signal-to-noise ratio, SNR = 0.95), and DICE (0.906), IoU (0.830), HD (2.967 mm) in the Gaussian noise (sigma value, \u03c3 = 0.1); by contrast, intriguingly, performance of the U-Net and U-Net+++ models were remarkably degraded. Under increasing levels of simulated noise corruption (SNR decreased from 0.95 to 0.75; \u03c3 increased from 0.1 to 0.5), the nnU-Net network exhibited marginal decline in segmentation agreement meanwhile yielding decent performance as if there were absence of noise corruption.\nThe nnU-Net model was the best-performing midbrain segmentation model in terms of segmentation agreement, stability, time efficiency and robustness, providing the community with an objective, effective and automated alternative. Moving forward, a multi-center multi-vendor study is warranted when it comes to clinical implementation.", 
    "abstract": "To assess the intrarater reliability and agreement of blood pressure (BP), arterial stiffness, and heart rate variability (HRV) assessments in patients with Parkinson`s disease (PD). Twenty patients with PD visited the laboratory three times, during which brachial and central BP (auscultatory and applanation tonometry, respectively), arterial stiffness (carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and augmentation index), and HRV assessments were performed at rest. Brachial and central systolic BP presented greater values on visit 1 when compared to visits 2 and 3 (122\u00b113 vs. 116\u00b116 vs. 120\u00b115, p=0.029). There were no significant differences (p>0.05) among the experimental visits for other parameters. Brachial and central BP showed an intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) above 0.842 and a standard error of measurement (SEM) lower than 5.0%. Bland-Altman plots indicated low agreement between visits 1 and 2 and good agreement between visits 2 and 3. Arterial stiffness indices exhibited ICC values between 0.781 and 0.886, and SEM ranged from 7.3% to 25.2%. Bland-Altman plots indicated moderate to good agreement among visits for arterial stiffness parameters. HRV indices presented ICC values ranging from 0.558 to 0.854 and SEM values ranging from 5.1% to 76.0%. Bland-Altman plots indicated moderate agreement among visits for HRV parameters. In PD patients, brachial and central BP present low intrarater reliability and agreement between visits 1 and 2 and good intrarater reliability and agreement between visits 2 and 3. In general, arterial stiffness and HRV assessments present acceptable intrarater reliability and agreement among visits, except for cardiac sympathovagal balance.\nAvaliar a confiabilidade e a concord\u00e2ncia intra-avaliador das avalia\u00e7\u00f5es da press\u00e3o arterial (PA), rigidez arterial e variabilidade da frequ\u00eancia card\u00edaca (VFC) em pacientes com doen\u00e7a de Parkinson (DP). Vinte pacientes com DP realizaram tr\u00eas visitas ao laborat\u00f3rio, durante as quais foram realizadas avalia\u00e7\u00f5es da PA braquial e central (tonometria de aplana\u00e7\u00e3o e auscultat\u00f3rio, respectivamente), rigidez arterial (velocidade da onda de pulso carot\u00eddeo-femoral e \u00edndice de aumento) e VFC em repouso. A PA sist\u00f3lica braquial e central apresentou valores maiores na visita 1 quando comparada \u00e0s visitas 2 e 3 (122\u00b113 vs. 116\u00b116 vs. 120\u00b115, p=0,029). N\u00e3o houve diferen\u00e7as significativas (p>0,05) entre as visitas experimentais para outros par\u00e2metros. A PA braquial e central apresentou um coeficiente de correla\u00e7\u00e3o intraclasse (CCI) acima de 0,842 e um erro padr\u00e3o de medida (EPM) menor que 5,0%. Os gr\u00e1ficos de Bland\u2013Altman indicaram baixa concord\u00e2ncia entre as visitas 1 e 2 e boa concord\u00e2ncia entre as visitas 2 e 3. Os \u00edndices de rigidez arterial exibiram valores de CCI entre 0,781 e 0,886, e o EPM variou de 7,3% a 25,2%. Os gr\u00e1ficos de Bland\u2013Altman indicaram concord\u00e2ncia moderada a boa entre as visitas para os par\u00e2metros de rigidez arterial. Os \u00edndices de VFC apresentaram valores de CCI variando de 0,558 a 0,854 e valores de EPM que variam de 5,1% a 76,0%. Os gr\u00e1ficos de Bland\u2013Altman indicaram concord\u00e2ncia moderada entre as visitas para os par\u00e2metros de VFC. Em pacientes com DP, a PA braquial e central apresenta baixa confiabilidade intra-avaliador e concord\u00e2ncia entre as visitas 1 e 2 e boa confiabilidade intra-avaliador e concord\u00e2ncia entre as visitas 2 e 3. Em geral, as avalia\u00e7\u00f5es de rigidez arterial e VFC apresentam confiabilidade intra-avaliador e concord\u00e2ncia aceit\u00e1veis entre as visitas, exceto para o equil\u00edbrio simp\u00e1tico-vagal card\u00edaco.", 
    "abstract": "Sleep dysfunction occurs in various forms and is a bothersome and intrusive non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD). Frequently undiagnosed, their poor management can have a great impact on the quality of life of PD patients and their caregivers.\nThis article covers the safety and efficacy of pharmacological strategies for the management of the most frequent sleep disturbances in Parkinson's disease. Non-pharmacological aspects are also discussed, but these are not the main focus. Literature searches using electronic databases (Medline, Cochrane Library) and systematic checking of references from review articles/other reports were performed.\nMelatonin and clonazepam are the most commonly used therapies for the management of REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD). The most used pharmacological wake-promoting agents in the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) are modafinil and caffeine. Poor nocturnal sleep quality is usually linked to EDS, thus proper sleep hygiene is recommended. As nocturnal motor symptoms are commonly associated with sleep fragmentation and early morning off, optimization of dopaminergic treatment during nighttime is highly recommended for the proper management of insomnia. Further interventions include eszopiclone and melatonin for the management of insomnia. Therapeutic options for restless legs syndrome (RLS) include calcium channel alpha-2-delta ligands and low dose dopamine agonists (DA). Further confirmatory evidence is needed before the general recommendation of these treatments.", 
    "abstract": "Although neuromelanin-sensitive magnetic resonance imaging (NM-MRI) has been used to evaluate early neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease, studies concentrating on the locus coeruleus (LC) in pre-dementia stages of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are lacking.\nThe aims were to evaluate NM-MRI signal changes in the LC in patients with mild cognitive impairment with Lewy bodies (MCI-LB) compared to healthy controls (HC) and to identify the cognitive correlates of the changes. We also aimed to test the hypothesis of a caudal-rostral \u03b1-synuclein pathology spread using NM-MRI of the different LC subparts.\nA total of 38 MCI-LB patients and 59 HCs underwent clinical and cognitive testing and NM-MRI of the LC. We calculated the contrast ratio of NM-MRI signal (LC-CR) in the whole LC as well as in its caudal, middle, and rostral MRI slices, and we compared the LC-CR values between the MCI-LB and HC groups. Linear regression analyses were performed to assess the relationship between the LC-CR and cognitive outcomes.\nThe MCI-LB group exhibited a significant reduction in the right LC-CR compared to HCs (P\u2009=\u20090.021). The right LC-CR decrease was associated with impaired visuospatial memory in the MCI-LB group. Only the caudal part of the LC exhibited significant LC-CR decreases in MCI-LB patients compared to HCs on both sides (P\u2009<\u20090.0001).\nThis is the first study that focuses on LC-CRs in MCI-LB patients and analyzes the LC subparts, offering new insights into the LC integrity alterations in the initial stages of DLB and their clinical correlates. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "To explore the effect of scalp nerve block (SNB) combined with intercostal nerve block (ICNB) on quality of recovery (QoR) after deep brain stimulation (DBS) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).\nWe conducted a prospective randomized controlled trial in which 88 patients with PD were randomly assigned to undergo SNB combined with ICNB (SNB group) or not (control group) before surgery. The primary outcome was the 15-item QoR (QoR-15) score 24\u00a0h after surgery. The secondary outcomes included QoR-15 scores at 72\u00a0h and 1 month after surgery, pain-related events, recovery events in post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), duration of anesthesia and surgery, and nerve block-related adverse events.\nThe QoR-15 score at 24\u00a0h after surgery was significantly higher in SNB group than Control group: 122.0 \u00b1 7.6 vs 113.5 \u00b1 11.3 (\nPreoperative SNB combined with ICNB improved QoR and analgesia after surgery, and reduced intraoperative opioid consumption and the incidence of PONV in patients with PD who underwent DBS.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The gerontological literature suggests that external housing-related control beliefs (HCB) influence activities of daily living (ADL) among older people, but knowledge is scarce for people with Parkinson's disease (PD). This longitudinal study aimed to explore the directions of the relationship between external HCB and ADL among people with PD.\nBaseline (T1) and 3-year follow-up data (T2) were collected from 154 people with PD (mean age\u2009=\u200968\u2009years, T1). Two regression analyses were applied, where dependent (T2 values) and independent (T1 values) variables-external HCB score and PD specific ADL (PADLS)-were switched, adjusting for age, disease severity, cognitive functioning, and accessibility problems.\nThere was a significant effect of ADL on external HCB (\u03b2\u2009=\u20093.07, \nADL difficulties seem to lead to higher external HCB, but not the other way around, which contradicts assumptions in environmental gerontology theories. This new knowledge can promote theory development. While additional studies are required to verify whether this is a disease-specific finding, this indicates the importance of targeting ADL if the purpose is to influence external HCB among people with PD.", 
    "abstract": "In this study, we proposed a novel set of bispectrum in constructing both frequency power and complexity spectrum. The uniform phase empirical mode decomposition (UPEMD) was implemented to obtain nonlinear extraction while guaranteeing explicit frequencies. Lepel-Ziv complexity (LZC) and frequency power per mode were used for comprehensive frequency spectra. To examine the performances of the proposed method and meanwhile optimize routine methodological parameters, either chaotic logistic maps or a default non-stationary simulation in 40\u2009~\u200960\u00a0Hz along with several challenges were designed. The simulation results showed the UPEMD-based LZC spectrum distinguishes the degree of complexity, reflecting the bandwidth and noise level of the inputs. The UPEMD-based power spectrum on the other side presents power distribution of nonlinear and nonstationary oscillation across multiple frequencies. In addition, given gait disturbance is an unsolved symptom in adaptive deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease (PD), meanwhile considering the representative of deep brain activities to the complex oscillations, such data were analyzed further. Our results showed the high-frequency band (45\u2009~\u200980\u00a0Hz) of the UPEMD-based LZC spectrum reflects the impact of auditory cues in modulating the complexity of DBS recording. Such an increase in complexity (45\u2009~\u200960\u00a0Hz) reduces shortly after the cue was removed. As for the UPEMD-based power spectrum, decreasing power over the higher frequency region (>\u200930\u00a0Hz) was shown with auditory cues. These results manifest the potential of the proposed methods in reflecting gait improvement for PD. The proposed bispectrum reflected both the nonlinear complexity and power spectrum analyses, enabling examining targeted frequencies with refined resolution.\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11571-023-09953-z.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second neurodegenerative disorder most prevalent in the world, characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the Substantia Nigra (SN). It is well known for its motor and non-motor symptoms including bradykinesia, resting tremor, psychiatric, cardiorespiratory, and other dysfunctions. Pathological apoptosis contributes to a wide variety of diseases including PD. Various insults and/or cellular phenotypes have been shown to trigger distinct signaling events leading to cell death in neurons affected by PD. The intrinsic or mitochondrial pathway, inflammatory or oxidative stress-induced extrinsic pathways are the main events associated with apoptosis in PD-related neuronal loss. Although SN is the main brain area studied so far, other brain nuclei are also affected by the disease leading to non-classical motor symptoms as well as non-motor symptoms. Among these, the respiratory symptoms are often overlooked, yet they can cause discomfort and may contribute to patients shortened lifespan after disease diagnosis. While animal and ", 
    "abstract": "Photoisomerization of ligands is a key process in the field of photopharmacology. Thus, the kinetics and efficiency of this initial photoreaction are of great importance but can be influenced by the molecular environment of the binding pocket and the resulting confinement of the reaction pathway. In this study, we investigated the photoisomerization of an azobenzene derivative of the anti-Parkinson's drug istradefylline. To identify the impact of the binding pocket, the ligand was examined in solution and bound to its target protein, the A", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD) is a chronic neurological disorder primarily characterized by a deficiency of dopamine in the brain. In recent years, numerous studies have highlighted the substantial influence of RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) regulators on various biological processes. Nevertheless, the specific contribution of m6A-related genes to the development and progression of PD remains uncertain. In this study, we performed a differential analysis of the GSE8397 dataset in the Gene Expression Omnibus database and selected important m6A-related genes. Candidate m6A-related genes were then screened using a random forest model to predict the risk of PD. A nomogram model was built based on the candidate m6A-related genes. By employing a consensus clustering method, PD was divided into different m6A clusters based on the selected significant m6A-related genes. Finally, we performed immune cell infiltration analysis to explore the immune infiltration between different clusters. We performed a differential analysis of the GSE8397 dataset in the Gene Expression Omnibus database and selected 11 important m6A-related genes. Four candidate m6A-related genes (YTH Domain Containing 2, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C, leucine-rich pentatricopeptide repeat motif containing protein and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3) were then screened using a random forest model to predict the risk of PD. A nomogram model was built based on the 4 candidate m6A-related genes. The decision curve analysis indicated that patients can benefit from the nomogram model. By employing a consensus clustering method, PD was divided into 2 m6A clusters (cluster A and cluster B) based on the selected significant m6A-related genes. The immune cell infiltration analysis revealed that cluster A and cluster B exhibit distinct immune phenotypes. In conclusion, m6A-related genes play a significant role in the development of PD and our study on m6A clustering may potentially guide personalized treatment strategies for PD in the future.", 
    "abstract": "Employing a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, we aimed to investigate the potential causal effect of Parkinson disease (PD) on osteoporosis. We conducted an in-depth MR analysis by leveraging extensive genome-wide association study datasets from the International Parkinson Disease Genomics Consortium and the Genetic Factors for Osteoporosis Consortium. We meticulously selected instrumental variables based on strict criteria, including significance thresholds, linkage disequilibrium, and the exclusion of confounding single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Our investigation utilized diverse MR methods, including inverse variance weighted, MR Egger regression, weighted median, and MR-PRESSO, to robustly evaluate the causal relationship. Our comprehensive analysis revealed noteworthy associations between PD and distinct measures of bone mineral density (BMD) (forearm BMD, femoral neck BMD, lumbar spine BMD). Specifically, the inverse variance weighted method underscored potential significant relationships between PD and forearm BMD (P\u2005=\u2005.037; odds ratio [OR], 1.04; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.00-1.09), femoral neck BMD (P\u2005=\u2005.034; OR, 1.02; 95% CI, 1.00-1.05), and lumbar spine BMD (P\u2005=\u2005.043; OR, 1.03; 95% CI, 1.00-1.06). The consistency of results across various methods and sensitivity analyses indicated both robustness and minimal pleiotropy concerns. Through a two-sample MR approach, this study establishes a plausible causal relationship between PD and decreased BMD. The outcomes underscore the urgency of targeted interventions to mitigate bone loss and manage osteoporosis in individuals with PD.", 
    "abstract": "Depression is one of the most common non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD), with an increasing prevalence in recent years. It causes significant psychological consequences that affect the disease course, overall quality of life, and functioning. The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of depression in outpatients with Parkinson's disease evaluated in the neurology clinic at tertiary hospital in Mogadishu, Somalia.\nA cross-sectional study was conducted among 50 PD patients without dementia to determine the prevalence of depression at the neurology clinic of the Mogadishu Somalia T\u00fcrkiye Training and Research Hospital between February and November 2022. All eligible participants were interviewed by a team of doctors using a structured questionnaire that consisted of sociodemographics and clinical characteristics, the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) for depression assessment, and the Modified Hoehn and Yahr Scale for PD staging.\nOf the 50 PD participants, 60% were male and 58% were older than 60 years. 20% of them had a family history of PD and HTN as comorbid conditions. The prevalence of depression among the participants was 46% (95% CI 31.8-60.7). Of the patients with depression, 22% and 24% had mild and moderate depressive symptoms, respectively. The Mann-Whitney \nThis is the first study conducted on patients with PD in Somalia and found that a significant proportion of these patients experienced depressive symptoms. We also highlighted that factors such the presence of medical comorbidities, high monthly income, advanced PD stage, longer duration of PD, and use of multiple medications for PD were significantly associated with the presence of depressive symptoms.", 
    "abstract": "This study will present the burden of diseases needing neurorehabilitation in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries and describe their epidemiology across age and sex groups.\nThis study was conducted based on the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2021 findings. The authors used years of healthy life lost due to disability (YLD) as a proxy for the need for neurorehabilitation, and extracted the YLD rates and counts for neonatal encephalopathy due to birth asphyxia and trauma, stroke, neural tube defects, Parkinson's disease (PD), motor neuron disease, multiple sclerosis (MS), tension-type headache, other neurological disorders (except migraine, dementia, and epilepsy), head injuries, spinal injuries, nerve injury, and asphyxiation across age groups, sexes, and MENA countries.\nYLD rates of disorders needing neurorehabilitation in 1990 and 2021 were 408.08 and 496.19 per 100 000 people, respectively, indicating a 21.59% rise in YLD. Stroke had the highest YLD rates in both 1990 (150.19 per 100 000) and 2021 (192.75 per 100 000). Syria, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates had the highest YLD rates for conditions needing neurorehabilitation.\nConsidering the growing demand for neurorehabilitation with the aging of populations and the historical shortage of rehabilitation services in the region, the gap between the demand and supply may further increase in the coming years, leading to consequences for people living with neurological conditions in the region.", 
    "abstract": "Respiratory alkalosis is associated with central nervous system (CNS) diseases, drugs, lung diseases and others. Safinamide is a recent anti-parkinsonian drug with anti-dyskinetic properties and a good adjunct to L-dopa therapy during the activation period, with no significant adverse effects described. The authors present a case of a 71-year-old woman, with Parkinson's disease treated with levodopa/benserazide, safinamide, amitriptyline, sertraline and diazepam. She made multiple visits to the emergency department due to progressive dyspnoea and asthenia, with primary respiratory alkalosis, which was thought to be caused by anxiety-induced hyperventilation and treated accordingly. After a comprehensive study, it was determined that the most probable cause of the respiratory alkalosis was pharmacological. There was a clinical and temporal agreement with the introduction of safinamide.\nRespiratory alkalosis is a multifactorial acid-base disorder, mostly associated with psychological factors and anxiety induced hyperventilation.Safinamide is a new drug for the treatment of Parkinson's disease with promising results in terms of efficacy and safety. However, there is only a limited number of studies on safinamide.Respiratory alkalosis could be an adverse effect of safinamide through several different mechanisms.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder that lacks proven biomarkers. Case-control genome-wide association studies revealed the potential effect of galectin\u20113 (GAL3) on motor progression in PD patients. Based on this finding, our study aimed to explore the correlation between serum GAL3 levels and motor performance in PD patients.\nFive hundred PD patients and 200\u00a0healthy controls were recruited. The serum levels of GAL3 were measured in participants by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The baseline characteristics of the participants were collected, and the associated scale scores were obtained.\nCompared with healthy controls, the serum levels of GAL3 were greatly increased in PD patients. These levels could distinguish between PD patients and healthy controls with a sensitivity of 0.798 and a specificity of 0.815 (AUC = 0.795, 95% \nHigher GAL3 level was related to more severe motor performance in patients with age >60 years, and it may be a potential predictive biomarker for motor performance in PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Emerging diseases like Parkinson or Alzheimer's, which are not curable, endanger human mental health and are challenging to research. Drug target interactions (DTI) are pivotal in the screening of candidate drugs and focus on a small pool of drug targets. Electroencephalogram shows the responses to psychotropic medicines in the brain bioelectric activity. Synaptic activity can be analyzed by using Local Field Potential recordings obtained from micro-electrodes implanted in the brain. The aim is to evaluate the effects of drug on brain bioelectric activity and increase the drug classification accuracy. The ultimate goal is to advance our understanding of how drugs affect synaptic activity and open the door to more focused treatment for neurodegenerative diseases.\nIn this study, Pharmaco-EEG recordings are processed using Advanced neural network models, particularly Convolutional Neural Networks, to assess the effects of medications. The five different medicines used in this study are Ephedrine, Fluoxetine, Kratom, Morphine, and Saline. The signals observed are local field potential signals. To overcome some limits of DTI prediction, we propose Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) for the categorization of intracranial EEG (i-EEG) data, departing from standard approaches. Similar EEG patterns are presumably caused by drugs that work by homologous pharmacological pathways, producing similar psychotropic effects. To improve accuracy and reduce training loss, our study introduces a bidirectional LSTM model for classification along with Bayesian optimization.\nHigh recall, precision, and F1-Scores, particularly a 95% F1-Score for morphine, ephedrine, fluoxetine, and saline, suggest good performance in predicting these drug classes. Kratom produces a somewhat lower recall of 94%, but a high F1-Score of 97% and perfect precision of 1.00. The weighted average F1-Score, macro average, and overall accuracy are all consistently high (around 97%), indicating that the model works well throughout the spectrum of drugs.\nImproved model performance was demonstrated by using a diversified dataset with five drug categories and bidirectional LSTM boosted with Bayesian optimization for hyperparameter tuning. From earlier limited-category models, it represents a substantial advancement.", 
    "abstract": "Age-related decline occurs in most brain structures and sensory systems. An illustrative case is olfaction. The olfactory bulb (OB) undergoes deterioration with age, resulting in reduced olfactory ability. A decline in olfaction is also associated with early symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the underlying reasons are unclear. The microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) is expressed in the projection neurons (PNs) of the OB-the mitral and tufted (M/T) cells. Primary M/T cells from ", 
    "abstract": "In the original publication [...].", 
    "abstract": "Pyogenic spondylitis or intervertebral discitis rarely spreads into the thoracic cavity, resulting in pyothorax. Moreover, no study has reported methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) as a cause. Conservative and surgical treatments are reportedly effective for the above-mentioned situations; however, there have been no comprehensive reports owing to the disease's rarity. This report described a case of acute pyothorax due to MRSA-caused pyogenic spondylitis in which surgical intervention with curettage of the intrapleural abscess and simultaneous thoracic vertebral debridement and anterior fixation were effective.\nA 60-year-old female with Parkinson's disease was diagnosed with pyogenic spondylitis caused by MRSA and managed with antibiotics. Subsequently, a right encapsulated pleural effusion was observed, and thoracentesis was performed. No bacteria were identified in the pleural fluid culture; nonetheless, the leukocytes in the fluid increased, and the patient was diagnosed with right acute pyothorax caused by pyogenic spondylitis. Management of the spondylitis and pyothorax before the disease became severe was necessary. We performed curettage of the intrapleural abscess and vertebral debridement and anterior fixation using an autogenous rib through open thoracotomy. The inflammation or accompanying symptoms did not worsen 3 months after hospital discharge.\nAcute pyothorax is rare but may develop from pyogenic spondylitis, for which MRSA is a rarer causative agent. Simultaneous vertebral debridement and anterior fixation, with curettage of the thoracic cavity abscess, may be useful in its management.", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established treatment for motor disorders like Parkinson's disease, but its mechanisms and effects on neurons and networks are not fully understood, limiting research-driven progress. This review presents a framework that combines neurophysiological insights and translational research to enhance DBS therapy, emphasizing biomarkers, device technology, and symptom-specific neuromodulation. It also examines the role of animal research in improving DBS, while acknowledging challenges in clinical translation.", 
    "abstract": "Aging is a major risk factor for various chronic diseases and offers a potential target for developing novel and broadly effective preventatives or therapeutics for age-related conditions, including those affecting the brain. Mechanisms contributing to aging have been summarized as the hallmarks of aging, with iron imbalance being one of the major factors. Ferroptosis, an iron-mediated lipid peroxidation-induced programmed cell death, has recently been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Addressing ferroptosis offers both opportunities and challenges for treating neurodegenerative diseases, though the specific mechanisms remain unclear. This research explores the key processes behind how ferroptosis contributes to brain aging, with a focus on the complex signaling networks that are involved. The current article aims to uncover that how ferroptosis, a specific type of cell death, may drive age-related changes in the brain. Additionally, the article also unveils its role in neurodegenerative diseases, discussing how understanding these mechanisms could open up new therapeutic avenues.", 
    "abstract": "The progressive decline of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) has been linked to an imbalance in energy and the failure of mitochondrial function. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), the major intracellular energy sensor, regulates energy balance, and damage to nigral dopaminergic neurons induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) is exacerbated in the absence of AMPK activity. This study aimed to examine the potential therapeutic advantages of AdipoRon, an AMPK activator, on motor function and mitochondrial homeostasis in a 6-OHDA-induced PD model. Male Wistar rats were subjected to unilateral injection of 6-OHDA (10\u00a0\u03bcg) into the left medial forebrain bundle at two points, and after 7 days, they were treated with intranasal AdipoRon (0.1, 1, and 10\u00a0\u03bcg) or Levodopa (10\u00a0mg/kg, p. o.) for 21 successive days. Following the last treatment day, motor behavior was evaluated through the Murprogo's test, bar test, beam walking test, and apomorphine-induced rotation test. After euthanasia, the left substantia nigra (SN) was separated for evaluation of ATP, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and protein expressions of AMPK, p-AMPK, and mitochondrial dynamics markers (Mfn-2 and Drp-1). Moreover, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH", 
    "abstract": "Angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE1) maintains blood pressure homeostasis by converting angiotensin I into angiotensin II in the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). ACE1 is expressed in the brain, where an intrinsic RAS regulates complex cognitive functions including learning and memory. ACE1 has been implicated in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, but the mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing to characterize the expression of RAS genes in the hippocampus and discovered that Ace is mostly expressed in CA1 region excitatory neurons. To gain a deeper understanding of the function of neuronal ACE1, we generated ACE1 conditional knockout (cKO) mice lacking ACE1 expression specifically in hippocampal and cortical excitatory neurons. ACE1 cKO mice exhibited hippocampus-dependent memory impairment in the Morris water maze, y-maze, and fear conditioning tests. Total ACE1 level was significantly reduced in the cortex and hippocampus of ACE1 cKO mice showing that excitatory neurons are the predominant cell type expressing ACE1 in the forebrain. Despite similar reductions in total ACE1 level in both the hippocampus and cortex, the RAS pathway was dysregulated in the hippocampus only. Importantly, ACE1 cKO mice exhibited age-related capillary loss selectively in the hippocampus. Here, we show selective vulnerability of the hippocampal microvasculature and RAS pathway to neuronal ACE1 knockout. Our results provide important insights into the function of ACE1 in the brain and demonstrate a connection between neuronal ACE1 and cerebrovascular function in the hippocampus.", 
    "abstract": "Variants in GBA1 are important genetic risk factors in Parkinson's disease (PD). GBA1 T369M has been linked to an \u223c80\u00a0% increased PD risk but the reports are conflicting and the relevance of GBA1 variants in different populations varies. A lack of association between T369M and PD in the Swedish population was recently reported but needs further validation. We therefore investigated T369M in 1,808 PD patients and 2,183 controls and our results support that T369M is not a risk factor for PD in the Swedish population.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) motor symptoms. DBS is also associated with postoperative cognitive change in some patients. Previous studies found associations between medial active electrode contacts and overall cognitive decline. Our current aim is to determine the relationship between active electrode contact location and domain-specific cognitive changes.\nA single-institution retrospective cohort study was conducted in patients with PD who underwent subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS from August 05, 2010, to February 22, 2021, and received preoperative and postoperative neuropsychological testing. Standardized norm-referenced test z-scores were categorized into attention, executive function, language, verbal memory, and visuospatial domains. SD change scores were averaged to create domain-specific change scores. We identified anterior commissure/posterior commissure coordinates of active electrode contacts in atlas space. We evaluated differences in active electrode contact location between patients with a domain score decrease of at least 1 SD and less than 1 SD. We performed multiple variable linear regression controlling for age, sex, education, time from surgery to postoperative neuropsychological testing (follow-up duration), disease duration, preoperative unified Parkinson's disease rating scale off medication scores, and preoperative memory scores to determine the relationship between active electrode contact location and domain change.\nA total of 83 patients (male: n = 60, 72.3%) were included with a mean age of 63.6 \u00b1 8.3 years, median disease duration of 9.0 [6.0, 11.5] years, and median follow-up duration of 8.0 [7.0, 11.0] months. More superior active electrode contact location in the left STN (P = .002) and higher preoperative memory scores (P < .0001) were associated with worsening memory. Active electrode contact location was not associated with change in other domains.\nIn patients with PD who underwent STN DBS, we found an association between superior active electrode contacts in the left STN and verbal memory decline. Our study increases understanding of factors associated with cognitive change after DBS and may help inform postoperative programming.", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive decline in Parkinson's disease (PD) varies widely. While models to predict cognitive progression exist, comparing traditional probabilistic models to deep learning methods remains understudied. This study compares sequential modeling techniques to identify cognitive progression in individuals with and without PD. Using data from the Parkinson's Progression Marker Initiative, shallow Markov, deep recurrent (long short-term memory [LSTM]), and nonrecurrent (temporal fusion transformer [TFT]) models were compared to predict cognitive status over time. Cognitive status was categorized into normal cognition (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and dementia. Predictions were made annually for up to 3\u2009years using clinical data, including demographics, cognitive assessments, PD severity, and medical history. Each approach was evaluated using inverse probability weighted (IPW-) F1 scores. An ensemble method combined outputs from the Markov, LSTM, and TFT models. The dataset included 917 individuals (53% PD; 30% at risk for PD; 17% Healthy Controls). The TFT model outperformed others across all annual periods (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.468) compared to the Markov (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.349) and LSTM (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.414) models, with improved performance using an ensemble approach (IPW-F1\u2009=\u20090.502). For MCI and dementia predictions, which were rarer occurrences compared to NC status (ratios: 50:8:1), the TFT model consistently outperformed competing models, achieving IPW-F1 scores of 0.496 and 0.533 for MCI and dementia, respectively. In conclusion, sequential deep learning models like TFT, which mitigate long-term memory loss and can interpret complex, high-dimensional data, perform best overall in predicting clinically important cognitive transitions. These methods should be further explored for predicting degenerative conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Treating neurological illnesses is challenging because the blood-brain barrier hinders therapeutic medications from reaching the brain. Recent advances in polymeric nanocarriers (PNCs), which improve medication permeability across the blood-brain barrier, may influence therapy strategies for neurological diseases. PNCs have several ways to deliver medications to the nervous system. This review article provides a summary of the parts and manufacturing methods involved in making PNCs. Additionally, it highlights the elements that result in PNCs having enhanced blood-brain barrier penetration. A combination of passive and active targeting strategies is used by PNCs intended to overcome the blood-brain barrier. Among these are micellar structures, nanogels, nanoparticles, cubosomes, and dendrimers. These nanocarriers, which are functionalized with certain ligands that target BBB transporters, enable the direct delivery of drugs to the brain. Mainly, the BBB prevents medications from entering the brain. Understanding the BBB's physiological and anatomical characteristics is necessary to get over this obstacle. Preclinical and clinical research demonstrates the safety and effectiveness of these PNCs, and their potential use in the treatment of neurological illnesses, including brain tumors, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease, is discussed. Concerns that PNCs may have about their biocompatibility and possible toxicity are also covered in this review article. This study examines the revolutionary potential of PNCs in CNS drug delivery, potential roadblocks, ongoing research, and future opportunities for PNC design progress. PNCs open the door to more focused and efficient treatment for neurological illnesses by comprehending the subtleties of BBB penetration.", 
    "abstract": "Amidst the rising global burden of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, there is an urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies to combat these debilitating conditions. These diseases are characterized by progressive neural dysfunction leading to cognitive impairments, for which current therapeutic strategies remain palliative at best. Recently, the discovery of ferroptosis, a novel cell death mode that is different from apoptosis and autophagy, has opened new avenues in the field of cognitive research. With in-depth research on ferroptosis, the clinical significance of iron homeostasis disorders and lipid peroxidation in the occurrence, development, and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases are gradually becoming apparent. This study aims to elucidate the roles of ferroptosis in the context of neurodegeneration and to explore its potential as a therapeutic target. By unraveling the intricate relationship between iron homeostasis disorders, oxidative damage, and lipid metabolism disturbances in these diseases, new intervention targets are revealed. It offers a new dimension to the management of neurocognitive impairments in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The implications of these findings extend beyond just Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. They also have relevance with other neurological conditions characterized by oxidative stress and iron dysregulation. This review contributes to increased knowledge of ferroptosis and provides a foundational understanding that could lead to the development of innovative therapeutic strategies. Ultimately, it may alleviate the development of neurodegenerative diseases and improve cognitive function by preventing ferroptosis, which has not only academic significance but also potential clinical significance.", 
    "abstract": "Histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) is a critical regulator of gene expression, influencing a variety of cellular processes in the central nervous system. As such, dysfunction of this enzyme may serve as a key driver in the pathophysiology of various neuropsychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. HDAC3 plays a crucial role in regulating neuroinflammation, and is now widely recognized as a major contributor to neurological conditions, as well as in promoting neuroprotective recovery following brain injury, hemorrhage and stroke. Emerging evidence suggests that pharmacological inhibition of HDAC3 can mitigate behavioral and neuroimmune deficits in various brain diseases and disorders, offering a promising therapeutic strategy. Understanding HDAC3 in the healthy brain lays the necessary foundation to define and resolve its dysfunction in a disease state. This review explores the mechanisms of HDAC3 in various cell types and its involvement in disease pathology, emphasizing the potential of HDAC3 inhibition to address neuroimmune, gene expression and behavioral deficits in a range of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric conditions.\nHistone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) is an essential enzyme that helps regulate gene expression in the brain, influencing a variety of processes critical for brain health. Dysfunction of this enzyme may contribute to various brain disorders and diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, spinal cord injury, stroke and major depressive disorder. HDAC3 is involved in the brain's response to injury and disease through dual roles in neuroinflammation and neuroprotection. Recent evidence suggests that inhibiting HDAC3 can mitigate detrimental immune processes in the brain, making it a promising target for new therapies. By understanding HDAC3 in the healthy brain, we can better identify how its dysfunction contributes to disease and how its inhibition may aid in recovery. This review explores the mechanisms of HDAC3 in various brain cell types and explores its potential as a therapeutic target for treating neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Exposure of inner mitochondrial membrane resident protein PHB2 (prohibitin 2) during autophagic removal of depolarized mitochondria (mitophagy) depends on the ubiquitin-proteasome system. This uncovering facilitates the PHB2 interaction with phagophore membrane-associated protein MAP1LC3/LC3. It is unclear whether PHB2 is exposed randomly at mitochondrial rupture sites. Prior knowledge and initial screening indicated that VDAC1 (voltage dependent anion channel 1) might play a role in this phenomenon. Through ", 
    "abstract": "Heat stress impacts are an escalating global health concern. Public health bodies such as the World Health Organization (WHO) warn that certain medications impair thermoregulation, with limited supporting evidence. Our aim was to investigate whether medications listed by the WHO increase core temperature responses during heat stress.\nFor this systematic review and meta-analysis, MEDLINE, PubMed, Scopus, CINAHL, Web of Science, and EMBASE were searched up to Jan.30, 2024. Randomised studies exposing humans to exertional and/or passive heat stress that investigated a drug identified by WHO compared to no drug/placebo were eligible. The primary outcome was core temperature (e.g., rectal, oesophageal, aural, tympanic). We assessed risk of bias (Cochrane's Risk of Bias 2) and certainty of evidence (GRADE). The study was pre-registered on PROSPERO (CRD42020170684).\nThirty-five studies were included enrolling 353 individuals (16 women; 4.5%). Twenty-seven unique medications were tested. The average age of participants across studies was <30 years, and only one study included a clinical population. Under heat stress, there was moderate quality evidence that drugs with high anticholinergic properties increased core temperature at air temperatures \u226530\u00b0C (+0.42\u00b0C; 95% CI 0.04, 0.79\u00b0C; p\u00a0=\u00a00.03) alongside reduced sweating, although evidence is limited to the drug atropine. Similarly, non-selective beta-blockers (+0.11\u00b0C; 95% CI 0.02, 0.19\u00b0C; p\u00a0=\u00a00.02), adrenaline (+0.41\u00b0C; 95% CI 0.21, 0.61\u00b0C) and anti-Parkinson's agents (+0.13\u00b0C; 95% CI 0.07, 0.19\u00b0C; p\u00a0=\u00a00.02) elevated core temperature. Antidepressants, diuretics, or drugs with weak anticholinergic effects did not alter core temperature responses.\nCurrent evidence supports strong anticholinergics, non-selective beta-blockers, adrenaline, and anti-Parkinson's agents impairing thermoregulation during heat stress. No evidence indicated thermoregulation is impacted by other WHO-listed medications. Evidence is predominantly limited to healthy young men, with short heat stress exposures. Studies over longer durations, in women, older adults and those with chronic diseases are required to better inform the pharmaceutical management of patients during hot weather.\nThis study was supported by a National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Investigator Grant (2021/GNT2009507; Holder: O. Jay).", 
    "abstract": "Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and its related disorders exhibit decreased sleep activity. However, the factors associated with this decreased sleep activity remain unknown. Thus, we aimed to explore the factors associated with sleep activity in patients with PD and its related disorders.\nThis study included 33 patients with PD and its related disorders and 57 healthy participants who visited our outpatient clinics between November 2018 and March 2020. We evaluated the patients' muscle masses and measured the number of times they turned during sleep. The limb skeletal muscle index was utilized to evaluate the loss of muscle mass. This study was registered in the UMIN Clinical Trials Registry (Clinical Trials Registry number: UMIN000052436).\nAge, maximal grip strength, presarcopenia, phase angle (legs), history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, orthopedic diseases, and the number of turns during sleep were associated with PD and its related disorders. The number of turns was independently associated with PD and its related disorders. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis revealed that the cutoff value for the number of turns was 6 (area under the curve, 0.986; sensitivity, 93.9%; specificity, 96.5%). The cutoff numbers of turns for men and women were 9 and 6, respectively (area under the curve, 1.0 and 0.981; sensitivity, 100% and 94.7%; specificity, 100% and 95.2%; respectively).\nThe number of turns during sleep is significantly associated with PD and its related disorders and may decrease before patients present with sarcopenia. In addition, PD and its related disorders may coexist in men who turn less than nine times during sleep.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a common non-motor manifestation of Parkinson's disease, commonly referred to as PD-MCI. However, there is a lack of comprehensive data regarding the role of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and cerebral white matter damage in the pathogenesis of PD-MCI. The objective of this study is to investigate the association between alterations in GDNF levels and cerebral white matter damage in individuals diagnosed with PD-MCI, as well as to explore their potential involvement in cognitive progression.\nNeuropsychological assessments were conducted on 105 patients with Parkinson's disease and 45 healthy volunteers to examine various cognitive domains. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to measure serum levels of GDNF. Additionally, all participants underwent 3.0T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to acquire diffusion tensor images (DTI), and a voxel-based analysis (VBA) approach was utilized to compare the fractional anisotropy (FA) values of white matter in the brain.\nThere was a significant correlation between the right corpus callosum, right cingulate gyrus, and the Digit Span Backward Test (DSB-T) as well as the Trail Making Test A (TMT-A), both of which assess attention and working memory functions. The left internal capsule exhibited a significant correlation with the Trail Making Test B (TMT-B) and the Clock Drawing Test (CDT), which evaluate executive function. Additionally, the right cingulate gyrus showed a significant association with scores on the Auditory Verbal Learning Test-HuaShan (AVLT-H), assessing memory function. Abnormal fiber structures that demonstrated significant correlations with serum GDNF levels included the left internal capsule, left corticospinal tract, right corpus callosum, and right cingulate gyrus.\nThe decrease in serum GDNF levels among PD-MCI patients exhibiting impairments in attention and working memory function was significantly correlated with alterations in the corpus callosum (knee) and posterior cingulate gyrus. Furthermore, the reduction of serum GDNF levels in PD-MCI patients with impaired executive function is associated with changes in the internal capsule (forelimb) projection fibers. Additionally, the decline of serum GDNF levels in PD-MCI patients experiencing memory function impairment is related to alterations in the right cingulate gyrus.", 
    "abstract": "Intermittent fasting (IF) has demonstrated extensive health benefits through the regulation of fatty acid metabolism and modulation of the neuroimmune microenvironment, primarily via the activation of key signaling pathways such as AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1). IF not only facilitates fatty acid oxidation and improves metabolic health, but also enhances mitochondrial function, mitigates oxidative stress, promotes autophagy, and inhibits apoptosis and ferroptosis. These mechanisms contribute to its substantial preventive and therapeutic potential in various conditions, including neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, autoimmune diseases, and neurotraumatic conditions. While supportive evidence has been obtained from animal models and preliminary clinical studies, further large-scale, long-term randomized controlled trials are imperative to establish its safety and evaluate its clinical efficacy comprehensively.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a global neurodegenerative ailment impacting millions, causes significant degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Emerging research underscores the gut microbiota's role in PD onset. Yet, investigations in Chinese demographics are lacking. This study thus targets a retrospective examination of gut microbiota variety and clinical aspects in Chinese PD patients.\nWe retrospectively analyzed 50 PD patients' clinical data (admitted May 2021-April 2022) and compared their gut microbiota composition and abundance via 16S rDNA V3-V4 region sequencing against 50 healthy controls. The study also explored links between disease severity and PD patients' gut microbiota.\nWe found that the gut microbiota diversity was increased in PD patients. Specifically, phyla Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria were more abundant, whereas Bacteroidetes was less abundant compared to controls. Gut microbiota diversity did not vary between early-vs. late-onset PD, tremor-dominant vs. non-tremor-dominant, or constipation-associated vs. non-constipation-associated subtypes. The abundance of Firmicutes was positively correlated with UPDRS (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) III score, NMSS (Non-Motor Symptoms Scale) score, Wexner score, and PDQ-39 (Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39) score; the abundance of Actinobacteria was positively correlated with UPDRS III, NMSS, Wexner, and PDQ-39 scores; and the abundance of Bacteroidetes was negatively correlated with UPDRS III, NMSS, Wexner, and PDQ-39 scores. At the family level, the abundance of Bifidobacteriaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Porphyromonadaceae was positively correlated with UPDRS III, NMSS, and PDQ-39 scores.\nCompared with healthy individuals, PD patients have increased gut microbiota diversity, and the abundance of Bifidobacteriaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Porphyromonadaceae is associated with the severity of both motor and non-motor symptoms in PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Dementia comprise a broad spectrum of cognitive declines affecting 47 million people worldwide, with numbers projected to reach 131 million by 2050. Predominantly associated with older adults, dementia can also impact younger individuals, having a significant impact on daily functioning of the affected patients, relatives, caregivers and the socioeconomic system. Recent research underscores the utility of social media, particularly X (previously designed as Twitter), in understanding public perceptions and sentiments related to neurological disorders. Despite some initial studies have explored social perceptions of dementia in X, broader and deeper analysis of this condition is still warranted.\nIn this retrospective study, we collected and examined all tweets posted in English or Spanish from 2007 to 2023 that mentioned dementia and compare the information with other highly representative neurological disorders like migraines, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, or Parkinson's disease. We developed a codebook to analyze tweets, classifying them by themes such as trivialization, treatment perceptions, and etiopathogenesis. Manually categorized tweets trained machine learning models, BERTWEET for English and BETO for Spanish, which then classified larger datasets with high accuracy. Statistical analysis, including ANOVA, Kruskal-Wallis, and chi-square tests, was conducted to explore linguistic and cultural differences in perceptions of neurological disorders, with results visualized.\nOur study reveals that dementia is by far the most frequently discussed neurological disorder on X. Likewise, this condition appears to be the most trivialized neurological disorder in Spanish tweets and the second most trivialized in English tweets, with notable differences in geolocation data. Additionally, we found significant differences in perceptions of dementia treatment and associated sentiments between Spanish and English tweets. Furthermore, our study identified varying perceptions of medical content (etiology) and non-medical content (positive/negative experiences and aid requests) related to dementia and other neurological disorders, unveiling a complex landscape of these topics on X.\nThis study explores the importance of X as a social platform for addressing various critical issues related to dementia, comparing it with other neurological disorders in English and Spanish tweets. Future research could further investigate the valuable role of social media in understanding public perceptions and needs regarding dementia and neurological disorders among X users.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Amyloid beta peptides (A\u03b2) are key indicators of Alzheimer's disease and are also linked to cognitive decline in Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. This study explored the accumulation of A\u03b2 in a standard 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of PD. We unilaterally injected 6-OHDA into the ", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to describe our experience and outcome of ablation therapy for arrhythmias in pediatrics at a tertiary care center.\nData was collected retrospectively from the hospital medical records. All pediatrics presenting to AUBMC between 2000 and 2020 who underwent cardiac ablation were included. The data collected included type of arrhythmia, ablation technique, age and weight at ablation, procedure complications, medications used, and outcome assessment.\nWe had 67 patients who underwent cardiac ablation. Of those, 60% were males with a mean age of 15 years. Structural heart disease was present in 6% of patients. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) was most prevalent at 31%, followed by atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) at 24%, atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) at 16%, ventricular tachycardia (VT) at 10%, atrial fibrillation (AF) at 3%, and atrial tachycardia (AT) at 1%. The remaining 15% of patients presented with less common types of arrhythmias, including other supraventricular tachycardias (SVTs), retrograde dual atrioventricular nodal reentry, and premature ventricular contractions (PVC). Antiarrhythmic medications were started before the procedure in 59% of our population. Medication regimens postablation included beta-blockers (68%), type 1c antiarrhythmics (25%), calcium channel blockers (3%), ivabradine (2%), and amiodarone (2%). The completed procedures showed a success rate of 93%.\nAblation of arrhythmias in pediatrics is an effective procedure in the treatment of childhood arrhythmias. More studies are needed on cardiac ablation in this age group and those with structural heart disease in the Middle East region.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The Parkinson's disease protein, alpha-synuclein (\u03b1-syn/SNCA), is highly expressed in neurons and melanomas. The goal of this study was to reveal the mechanism(s) of \u03b1-syn's involvement in melanoma pathogenesis. To decipher the genes and pathways affected by \u03b1-syn, we conducted an RNA sequencing analysis of human SK-MEL-28 cells and several SK-MEL-28 SNCA-KO clones. We identified 1098 significantly up-regulated genes and 660 significantly down-regulated genes. Several of the upregulated genes are related to the immune system, i.e., the inflammatory response and the matrisome. We validated five upregulated genes (IL-1\u03b2, SAA1, IGFBP5, CXCL8, and CXCL10) by RT-qPCR and detected IGFBP5 and IL-1\u03b2 in spent media of control and SNCA-KO cells. The levels of each of these secreted proteins were significantly higher in the spent media of the SNCA-KO clones than control cells. These secreted proteins quite likely activate the immune response against SNCA-KO cells. We suggest that, conversely, high levels of \u03b1-syn expression in melanoma cells helps the cells evade the immune system by inhibiting the secretion of these immune activating factors.", 
    "abstract": "The Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in the development, maintenance, and repair of the central nervous system (CNS). This chapter explores the diverse functions of Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling, from its critical involvement in embryonic CNS development to its reparative and plasticity-inducing roles in response to CNS injury. We discuss how Wnt/\u03b2-catenin signaling influences various CNS cell types-astrocytes, microglia, neurons, and oligodendrocytes-each contributing to repair and plasticity after injury. The chapter also addresses the pathway's involvement in CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, psychiatric disorders, and traumatic brain injury (TBI), highlighting potential Wnt-based therapeutic approaches. Lastly, zebrafish are presented as a promising model organism for studying CNS regeneration and neurodegenerative diseases, offering insights into future research and therapeutic development.", 
    "abstract": "Communication impairments significantly impact the quality of life for individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD), underscoring the need for effective interventions. Singing, by engaging shared neural networks and structural mechanisms involved in speech production, holds therapeutic potential for addressing speech disorders in this population. This study explores the effects of singing-based therapeutic intervention on voice in patients diagnosed with PD.\nWe systematically searched four electronic databases to find relevant studies. Data extraction and analysis involved calculating mean differences (MD) or standardized mean difference (SMD) for pre- and post-singing interventions, including their 95% confidence intervals (CI). Statistical significance was evaluated with a P-value threshold >0.05.\nOur systematic review and meta-analysis included 21 studies, encompassing 449 patients. Singing showed no significant effect on speaking fundamental frequency (MD 2.98, 95% CI: -6.79, 12.75, P\u00a0=\u00a00.55), jitter (MD -0.13, 95% CI: -0.47, 0.22, P\u00a0=\u00a00.47), shimmer (MD -0.71, 95% CI: -1.68, 0.26, P\u00a0=\u00a00.15), or health-related quality-of-life outcomes: Voice Handicap Index (MD -4.60, 95% CI: -9.29, 0.09, P\u00a0=\u00a00.05) and Voice-Related Quality of Life (SMD 0.08, 95% CI: -0.28, 0.44, P\u00a0=\u00a00.65). However, singing significantly improved vocal frequency range (MD 2.60, 95% CI: 1.17, 4.03, P\u00a0=\u00a00.0004), maximum expiratory pressure (MD 14.26, 95% CI: 9.57, 18.96, P\u00a0<\u00a00.00001), maximum inspiratory pressure (MD 6.22, 95% CI: 2.96, 9.48, P\u00a0=\u00a00.0002), and maximum phonation time (MD 1.83, 95% CI: 0.73, 2.92, P\u00a0=\u00a00.001). Vocal intensity showed no significant difference (MD 1.09, 95% CI: -0.71, 2.88, P\u00a0=\u00a00.24).\nOur study found that singing interventions positively affect vocal frequency range and respiratory outcomes. However, significant changes were not observed in other speech metrics.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases, mostly occurring in the elderly population, are the significant cause of disability and death worldwide. The pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases is still largely unknown yet, although they have been continuously explored. Thus, there is still a lack of safe, effective, and low side effect drugs in clinical practice for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Pieces of accumulating evidence have demonstrated that licorice played neuroprotective roles in various neurodegenerative diseases. In the past two decades, increasing studies have indicated that glycyrrhizic acid (GL), the main active ingredient from traditional Chinese medicine licorice (widely used in the food industry) and a triterpenoid saponin with multiple pharmacological effects (such as anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immune regulation), and its metabolites (glycyrrhetinic acid and carbenoxolone) play a neuroprotective role in a range of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and epilepsy. This review will elaborate on the multiple neuroprotective mechanisms of GL and its metabolites in this series of diseases, aiming to provide a basis for further research on these protective drugs for neurodegenerative diseases and their clinical application. In summary, GL may be a promising candidate drug for the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Pathologic \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn) aggregates from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract may contribute to Parkinson's disease (PD). Xiang et\u00a0al.", 
    "abstract": "Aggregation of alpha-synuclein (aSyn) occurs in presynaptic neurons and constitutes a key factor for the progression of Parkinson's disease, emphasising the urgency of early detection to support effective treatment. Unfortunately, a reliable, sensitive and cost-effective diagnostic tool has so far been lacking. Thus, this work presents a novel biosensor for detecting aSyn using plastic antibodies coupled to electrochemical detection. This biosensor was designed for portability and compatibility with point-of-care devices and exploits the electropolymerization of methylene blue (MB) together with aSyn on the carbon working electrode of screen-printed electrodes (SPEs). By electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements, the sensor showed exceptional analytical performance in detecting aSyn monomers in human CSF samples. It showed a linear trend of response from 1\u00a0fM to 10 pM with an impressively low limit of detection of 69 aM. Selectivity tests confirmed the predominant response to aSyn monomers, a less intense response to oligomers and insensitivity to fibrils. Overall, this plastic antibody-based electrochemical sensor represents a significant breakthrough as it is the first of its kind to accurately, sensitively and selectively detect aSyn monomers with a partial response to oligomers. Its simplicity and reproducibility promise to contribute to the early and effective diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP) ranks second to Parkinson's disease (PD) in causing parkinsonism. Despite sharing similar symptoms, DIP results from exposure to specific medications or substances, underscoring the need for accurate diagnosis. Here, we used resting-state electroencephalography (rsEEG) to investigate neural markers characterizing DIP and PD.\nWe conducted a retrospective analysis of rsEEG recordings from 18 DIP patients, 43 de novo PD patients, and 12 healthy controls (HC). After exclusions, data from 15 DIP, 41 PD, and 12 HC participants were analyzed. EEG spectral power and inter-channel coherence were compared across the groups.\nOur results demonstrated significant differences in rsEEG patterns among DIP, PD, and HC groups. DIP patients exhibited increased theta band power compared with PD patients and HC. Moreover, DIP patients showed higher delta band coherence compared with PD patients.\nThe current study highlights the differences in EEG spectral power and inter-channel coherence between DIP and PD patients.\nOur results suggest that rsEEG holds promise as a valuable tool for capturing differential characteristics between DIP and PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (levodopa and L-DOPA in this text), alongside dopamine, boasts high biocompatibility, prompting industrial demand for its use as a coating material. Indeed, the effectiveness of L-DOPA is steadily rising as it serves as an oral therapeutic agent for neurodegenerative brain diseases, particularly Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the effects of L-DOPA on the growth and function of astrocytes, the main glial cells, and the most numerous glial cells in the brain, are unknown. Here, we investigated whether L-DOPA is possible as a coating material on cover glass and polystyrene for rat primary astrocytes. The coating state of L-DOPA on the cover glass and polystyrene was characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and static water contact angle (WCA). Interestingly, L-DOPA coated on the cover glass promoted the proliferation of astrocytes but not neurons. Furthermore, L-DOPA coated on the cover glass, as opposed to polystyrene, facilitated the proliferation of the astrocytes. The astrocytes grown on L-DOPA-coated cover glasses exhibited functional receptor-activated Ca", 
    "abstract": "Prodromal signs of Parkinson's disease (PD), including vocal communication deficits, are poorly understood and do not respond adequately to current pharmacologic treatments. Norepinephrine dysfunction is involved early in PD; thus, drug therapies targeting norepinephrine may be useful as a treatment of prodromal signs. This study used a validated, translational rodent model of prodromal PD, the male ", 
    "abstract": "Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) stands as a prominent vector-borne zoonotic pathogen, displaying neurotropism and eliciting Parkinson's disease (PD)-like symptoms among most symptomatic survivors. A characteristic feature of PD is the aggregation of mutated \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn) that damages the dopaminergic neurons. Considering this link between JEV-induced PD-like symptoms and \u03b1-syn pathogenesis, we explored the role of \u03b1-syn in JEV infectivity in neuronal cells. Our investigation revealed a significant increase in endogenous \u03b1-syn expression in JEV-infected cells. In addition, exogenous \u03b1-syn (Exo\u03b1-syn) treatment substantially reduced JEV replication, suggesting its anti-JEV effect. Furthermore, Exo\u03b1-syn treatment led to the upregulation of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and reduction in reactive oxygen species (ROS). The results were validated by endogenous \u03b1-syn-silencing, which decreased SOD1 and raised ROS levels in neuronal cells. Similarly, the SOD1 inhibition \nJapanese encephalitis virus (JEV) poses a significant threat, particularly to children. Despite extensive research efforts, the development of effective treatments against JEV has been impeded. One of the major setbacks is a lack of comprehensive understanding of neurotropism. The study focuses on alpha-synuclein (\u03b1-syn), a neuronal protein, and aims to determine its role in JEV pathogenesis. The present study reveals that the host cell upregulates \u03b1-syn in response to JEV infection. \u03b1-syn restrains JEV propagation by modulating superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) expression which further blocks JEV-induced ROS generation. Endogenous \u03b1-syn silencing led to a decrease in SOD1 expression and increased viral titer. \u03b1-syn plays a crucial role in counteracting oxidative stress through SOD1, which is essential for limiting JEV replication. This study provides broader implications for antiviral strategies and their possible role in neurodegenerative diseases; however, there is still much to explore, particularly regarding \u03b1-syn aggregation kinetics in JEV infection.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD) frequently exhibit non-motor symptoms, particularly sleep disturbances. Sleep disorders in PD patients are intricately linked to the pathogenesis and progression of PD itself, exacerbating neurodegenerative processes and worsening patient quality of life.\nThis review underscores the significance of sleep disorders in PD, highlighting their prevalence, impact on disease progression, and the bidirectional relationship between sleep disruption and neurodegeneration. It aims to enhance clinician awareness for better diagnosis and management of sleep-related comorbidities in PD.\nA comprehensive literature search was conducted in PubMed and Scopus using key terms such as \"sleep disorders\", \"Parkinson's disease\", \"REM sleep behavior disorder\", \"restless legs syndrome\", \"insomnia\", \"obstructive sleep apnea\", \"excessive daytime sleepiness\", \"circadian rhythm disorders\", \"sleep and neurodegeneration\".\nSleep disorders are prevalent in PD affecting up to 90% of patients. Conditions such as insomnia, REM sleep behavior disorder, restless legs syndrome, obstructive sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, and circadian rhythm disorders are commonly reported. These disorders are linked to multifactorial biological mechanisms and are associated with more severe disease phenotypes. Of note, several evidence shows that sleep abnormalities may contribute to neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, further accelerating the disease course.\nSleep disturbances are critical non-motor symptoms in PD. Early diagnosis and tailored management of sleep disorders are essential for improving clinical outcomes and potentially offering neuroprotective benefits.", 
    "abstract": "Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is an autosomal dominant inherited neurodegenerative disorder for which there is currently no cure, nor effective treatment strategy.\nOur aim was to investigate the safety and efficacy of high-dose ganglioside GM1 (ganglioside-monosialic acid) pulse treatment in patients with SCA3.\nPatients were randomly allocated to receive either high-dose GM1 (400\u2009mg on the first day followed by 200\u2009mg/day), low-dose GM1 (40\u2009mg/day), or placebo (normal saline) for 4\u2009weeks. The primary outcome, assessed by measuring the change in the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA) scores from baseline to 12\u2009weeks post-treatment, is central to evaluating treatment efficacy. Secondary outcomes\u00a0included changes in the International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS) score, Barthel Index of Activities of Daily Living (ADL), and plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) GABA levels. Safety was assessed in all treated patients.\nA total of 48 patients with SCA3 were enrolled in this study. After 12\u2009weeks, data from 43 patients were included in the efficacy analysis (intention-to-treat analysis). The least-squares mean change in the SARA score from baseline to 12\u2009weeks post-treatment was -3.80 (standard error [SE], 0.39; 95% confidence interval [CI], -4.58 to -3.02) in the high-dose GM1 group, 0.34 (SE, 0.40; 95% CI, -0.46 to 1.13) in the low-dose GM1 group, and 0.73 (SE, 0.40; 95% CI, -0.07 to 1.52) in the placebo group, respectively. Secondary outcomes showed improvements in the ICARS score, Barthel Index of ADL, and plasma and CSF GABA levels in the high-dose GM1 group compared to the low-dose GM1 and placebo groups. All treatments were well-tolerated and safe.\nHigh-dose GM1 treatment significantly ameliorated ataxic symptoms in patients with SCA3. \u00a9 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "An abnormally organized brain spatial network is linked to the development of various central nervous system (CNS) disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases and neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the complicated molecular mechanisms of these diseases remain unresolved, making the development of treatment strategies difficult. A novel molecular imaging technique, called mass spectrometry imaging (MSI), captures molecular information on the surface of samples ", 
    "abstract": "Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) hydrolyses choline into thiocholine, which is essential for cholinergic neurons to revert to their resting state following activation. Abnormal changes in AChE activity can directly affect nervous system function. Thus, the specific detection of AChE activity is urgently needed for elucidating the function of the nervous system and diagnosing AChE-related diseases. Current methods for detecting AChE activity have several limitations, including strong background interference and poor tissue penetration. Thus, we designed and synthesized a two-photon (TP) excited fluorescent probe, WZ-AChE, for the specific detection of AChE. Briefly, a carbamate bond was chosen to specifically recognize AChE, which can also be cleaved by AChE. The product, WZ, released strong deep red fluorescence signal under TP excitation at 800\u00a0nm. Our results showed that WZ-AChE can detect AChE activity in PC12\u00a0cells with both superior sensitivity and selectivity. In addition, we successfully applied WZ-AChE to a C. elegans Parkinson's disease (PD) model and a mouse model of depression. The findings revealed that AChE activity was greater in both disease models than in the control group. To summarize, a novel tool was created to investigate the mechanisms underlying PD and depression.", 
    "abstract": "Excitatory neurotransmitter-induced neuronal ferroptosis has been implicated in multiple neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Although there are several reports pertaining to the pharmacological activities of biochanin A, the effects of this isoflavone on excitotoxicity-triggered neuronal ferroptosis remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that biochanin A inhibits ferroptosis of mouse hippocampal neurons induced by glutamate or the glutamate analog, kainic acid. Biochanin A significantly inhibited accumulation of intracellular iron and lipid peroxidation in glutamate- or kainic acid-treated mouse hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, biochanin A regulated the level of glutathione peroxidase 4, a master regulator of ferroptosis, by modulating its autophagy-dependent degradation. We observed that biochanin A reduced the glutamate-induced accumulation of intracellular iron by regulating expression of iron metabolism-related proteins including ferroportin-1, divalent metal transferase 1, and transferrin receptor 1. Taken together, these results indicate that biochanin A effectively inhibits hippocampal neuronal death triggered by glutamate or kainic acid. Our study is the first to report that biochanin A has therapeutic potential for the treatment of diseases associated with hippocampal neuronal death, particularly ferroptosis induced by excitatory neurotransmitter.", 
    "abstract": "Physical exercise has been extensively studied for its therapeutic properties in neurological disease, particularly Parkinson's Disease (PD). However, the established techniques for exercise in mice are not well suited to motor-deficient disease-model animals, rely on spontaneous activity or force exercise with aversive stimuli, and do not facilitate active measurement of neurophysiology with tethered assays. Motorized wheel exercise may overcome these limitations, but has not been shown to reliably induce running in mice.\nWe developed an apparatus and technique for inducing exercise in mice without aversive stimuli, using a motorized wheel that dynamically responds to subject performance.\nA commercially available motorized wheel system did not satisfactorily provide for exercise, as mice tended to avoid running at higher speeds. Our adaptive wheel exercise platform allowed for effective exercise induction in the 6-hydroxydopamine mouse model of PD, including with precise behavioral measurements and synchronized single-unit electrophysiology.\nOur approach provides a superior physical platform and programming strategy compared to previously described techniques for motorized wheel exercise. Unlike voluntary exercise, this allows for controlled experimental induction of running, without the use of aversive stimuli that is typical of treadmill-based techniques.\nAdaptive wheel exercise should allow for physical exercise to be better studied as a dynamic, physiological intervention in parkinsonian mice, as well as other neurological disease models.", 
    "abstract": "To investigate neuroinflammation in Parkinson's disease (PD) with [\nThe clinical cohort consisted of 20 subjects with PD and 51 healthy controls (HC). All HC and 15 PD participants underwent [\nWhile the subjects with PD and HC did not differ in the total volume of distribution (V\nAssociations between CSF biomarkers, motor disability and [", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are a diverse group of neurological disorders with progressive neuronal loss at specific brain regions, leading to impaired cognitive functioning, loss of neuroplasticity, severe neurological impairment, and dementia. The incidence of neurodegenerative diseases is increasing at an alarming rate with current treatments struggling to barely prolong the inevitable. The desperation to discover a therapeutic agent to treat neurodegenerative diseases and to aid in the process of healthy recovery has opened a gateway into natural pigments.\nThe xanthophyll pigment lutein may bear the potential as a therapeutic agent against NDDs.\nLutein plays an important role in brain development, cognitive functioning, and improving neuroplasticity. In vitro and in vivo studies revealed the neuroprotective properties of lutein against NDDs such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and cerebral ischemia. The neuroprotective effect of lutein is evidenced by the reduction of free radicals and the simultaneous strengthening of the endogenous antioxidant systems by activating the NRF-2/ERK/AKT pathway. Further, it effectively suppressed mitochondrial aberrations, excitotoxicity, overaccumulation of metals, and its resultant complications. The immunomodulatory activity of lutein prevents neuroinflammation by hindering NF-\u03baB nuclear translocation, regulation of NIK/IKK, PI3K/AKT, MAPK/ERK, JNK pathways, and ICAM-1 downregulation. Lutein also rescued the dysregulated cholinergic system and resolved memory defects. Along with its neuroprotective properties, lutein also improved neuroplasticity by enabling neurogenesis through increased GAP-43, NCAM, and BDNF levels.\nLutein exhibits strong neuroprotective activities against various NDDs. Though the investigations are in the exploratory phase, this review presents the consolidation of scattered evidence of the neuroprotective properties of lutein and urges its further exploration in clinical studies.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) is neuropathologically defined by deposits of misfolded hyperphosphorylated tau (HP-tau) and \u03b2-amyloid. Lewy body (LB) dementia, which includes dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD), is characterised pathologically by \u03b1-synuclein aggregates. HP-tau and \u03b2-amyloid can also occur as copathologies in LB dementia, and a diagnosis mixedAD/DLB can be made if present in sufficient quantities. We hypothesised the spread of these abnormal proteins selectively affects vulnerable areas, resulting in pathologic regional covariance that differentially associates with pre-mortem clinical characteristics. Our aims were to map regional quantitative pathology (HP-tau, \u03b2-amyloid, \u03b1-synuclein) and investigate the spatial distributions from tissue microarray (TMA) post-mortem samples across healthy aging, AD and LB dementia. The study involved 159 clinico-pathologically diagnosed human post-mortem brains (48 controls, 47 AD, 25 DLB, 20 mixedAD/DLB, 19 PDD). The burden of HP-tau, \u03b2-amyloid and \u03b1-synuclein was quantitatively assessed in cortical and subcortical areas. Principal components (PC) analysis was applied across all cases to determine the pattern nature of HP-tau, \u03b2-amyloid and \u03b1-synuclein. Further analyses explored the relationships of these pathological patterns with cognitive and symptom variables. Cortical (tauPC1) and temporolimbic (tauPC2) patterns were observed for HP-tau. For \u03b2-amyloid, a cortical-subcortical pattern (amylPC1) was identified. For \u03b1-synuclein, four patterns emerged: 'posterior temporal - occipital (synPC1)', 'anterior temporal-frontal (synPC2)', 'parieto-cingulate-insula (synPC3)', and 'frontostriatal-amygdala (synPC4)'. Distinct synPC scores were apparent among DLB, mixedAD/DLB and PDD, and may relate to different spreading patterns of \u03b1-synuclein pathology. In dementia, cognitive measures correlated with tauPC1, \u00a0tauPC2 and amylPC1 pattern scores (P\u22640.02), whereas such variables did not relate to \u03b1-synuclein parameters in these or combined LB dementia cases. Mediation analysis then revealed that in the presence of amylPC1, tauPC1 had a direct effect on global cognition in dementia (n=65, P=0.04), while tauPC1 mediated the relationship between amylPC1 and cognition through the indirect pathway (amylPC1\u2192 tauPC1 \u2192 global cognition) (P<0.05). Lastly, in synucleinopathies, synPC1 and synPC4 pattern scores were associated with visual hallucinations and motor impairment, respectively (P=0.02). In conclusion, distinct patterns of \u03b1-synuclein pathology were apparent in LB dementia, which could explain some of the disease heterogeneity and differing spreading patterns among these conditions. Visual hallucinations and motor severity were associated with specific \u03b1-synuclein topographies in LB dementia that may be important to the clinical phenotype, and could, after necessary testing/validation, be integrated into semi-quantitative routine pathological assessment.", 
    "abstract": "The human gut microbiota is diverse and abundant and plays important roles in regulating health by participating in metabolism and controlling physiological activities. The gut microbiota and its metabolites have been shown to affect the functioning of the gut and central nervous system through the microbiota-gut-brain axis. It is well established that microbiota play significant roles in the pathogenesis and progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Disorders of the intestinal microbiota and altered metabolite levels are closely associated with PD. Here, the changes in intestinal microbiota and effects of metabolites in patients with PD are reviewed. Potential mechanisms underlying intestinal microbiota disorders in the pathogenesis of PD are briefly discussed. Additionally, we outline the current strategies for the treatment of PD that target the gut microbiota, emphasizing the development of promising novel strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) relieves motor symptoms, including levodopa-responsive gait disorders in Parkinson's disease (PD). Traditionally, STN-DBS is not indicated to treat severe, clinically resistant axial symptoms. In this scenario, field H1 of Forel (FF) stimulation (FF-DBS) is likely a feasible option, given it improves motor symptoms, including freezing of gait (FOG), as shown by a short-term study. However, no data are available about the long-term effects of this therapy. Finally, no study has compared the long-term effects of FF and STN-DBS.\nWe report the long-term outcome (>five years) of bilateral FF-DBS in patients with PD. We also compare the effects of FF-DBS and STN-DBS on motor symptoms, cognition, and quality of life.\nWe studied 22 patients (ten with FF-DBS and 12 with STN-DBS). Motor symptoms, cognition, quality of life, and gait symptoms were assessed using the motor part of the Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS III), the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, the 39-item PD quality of life (PDQ-39), and the FOG questionnaire (FOG score) respectively. The levodopa equivalent daily dose was recorded. Comparisons of the FF and STN-DBS results were conducted.\nThe mean follow-up was 6.18 years (95% CI: 5.57-6.78). Compared with the preoperative period, patients with FF had an average reduction of 32.2% in the MDS-UPDRS III scores (p\u00a0< 0.01), a decrease of 35.3% in the FOG scores (p\u00a0< 0.01), and an improvement of 25.9% in the PDQ-39 (p\u00a0< 0.01). There was a 7.5% decrease in cognition (p\u00a0< 0.01). Levodopa equivalent dose (LED) was reduced by 26.3% (p\u00a0< 0.01). The STN group had an average reduction of 39.4% in the MDS-UPDRS III scores (p\u00a0< 0.01), a decrease of 23.7% in the FOG scores (p\u00a0< 0.01), and an improvement of 33.2% in the PDQ-39 scores (p\u00a0< 0.01). Cognition decreased by 1.6% (p\u00a0< 0.01) and LED by 15.06% (p\u00a0= 0.02). Patients with FF-DBS were older than those with STN-DBS at the time of surgery: 61.2 years and 55.7 years, respectively (p\u00a0= 0.02), and had longer duration of disease (p\u00a0= 0.02). Patients with FF-DBS had a greater reduction in FOG (p\u00a0= 0.02) than did the STN group and presented with a greater decrease in cognition (p\u00a0< 0.01) after five years. STN-DBS had a greater effect on quality of life.\nBoth FF-DBS and STN-DBS relieved motor symptoms and improved quality of life over a long-term period. Patients with FF-DBS had a higher reduction in both FOG and in LED than did those with STN-DBS. These data support our hypothesis that FF-DBS is a safe and efficient option for treating motor symptoms in PD, including FOG in advanced stages.", 
    "abstract": "Synaptic aggregation of \u03b1-synuclein often occurs in Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and other synucleinopathies and is associated with cognitive deficits and dementia. Thus, it is important to understand how accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein affects synapse structure and function. Native, physiological \u03b1-synuclein comprises a mixture of tetramers and related physiological oligomers (60-100\u00a0kDa) in equilibrium with monomeric \u03b1-synuclein. We previously demonstrated that acutely increasing the levels of physiological\u00a0\u03b1-synuclein impaired intracellular synaptic vesicle trafficking and produced a pleiotropic phenotype, raising questions about which aspects of the synaptic phenotype were due to multimeric versus monomeric \u03b1-synuclein. Here, we address this by taking advantage of the unique features of the lamprey giant reticulospinal (RS) synapse, a vertebrate synapse that is amenable to acute perturbations of presynaptic processes via microinjection of purified proteins. \u03b1-Synuclein monomers and multimers were purified from HEK cells and separately introduced to lamprey synapses. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that both multimeric and monomeric \u03b1-synuclein impaired intracellular vesicle trafficking, leading to a loss of synaptic vesicles and buildup of endosomes. However, while monomeric \u03b1-synuclein additionally induced atypical fusion/fission at the active zone and impaired clathrin-mediated endocytosis, multimeric \u03b1-synuclein did not. Conversely, multimeric \u03b1-synuclein led to a decrease in synaptic vesicle docking, which was not observed with monomeric \u03b1-synuclein. These data provide further evidence that different molecular species of \u03b1-synuclein produce distinct and complex impacts on synaptic vesicle trafficking and reveal important insights into the cell biological processes that are affected in PD and DLB. KEY POINTS: \u03b1-Synuclein accumulation at synapses is associated with cognitive decline and dementia in Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies. We previously showed that acute introduction of excess human brain-derived \u03b1-synuclein to lamprey giant synapses caused pleiotropic phenotypes on synaptic vesicle trafficking, probably due to the mixture of molecular species of \u03b1-synuclein. Here, we dissected which aspects of the synaptic phenotypes were caused by monomeric (14\u00a0kDa) or multimeric (60-100\u00a0kDa) \u03b1-synuclein by purifying each molecular species and introducing each one separately to synapses via axonal microinjection. While monomeric \u03b1-synuclein inhibited clathrin-mediated synaptic vesicle endocytosis, multimeric \u03b1-synuclein primarily impaired endosomal trafficking. These findings reveal that different molecular species of \u03b1-synuclein have distinct impacts on synapses, suggesting different cellular and molecular targets.", 
    "abstract": "Alterations in gut microbiota are observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous studies on microbiota-derived metabolites in PD were small-scale and post-diagnosis, raising concerns about reverse causality.\nOur goal was to prospectively investigate the association between plasma microbial metabolites and PD risk within a metabolomics framework.\nA nested case-control study within the prospective EPIC4PD cohort, measured pre-diagnostic plasma microbial metabolites using untargeted metabolomics.\nThirteen microbial metabolites were identified nominally associated with PD risk (P-value\u2009<\u20090.05), including amino acids, bile acid, indoles, and hydroxy acid, although none remained significant after multiple testing correction. Three pathways were implicated in PD risk: valine, leucine, and isoleucine degradation, butanoate metabolism, and propanoate metabolism. PD-associated microbial pathways were more pronounced in men, smokers, and overweight/obese individuals.\nChanges in microbial metabolites may represent a pre-diagnostic feature of PD. We observed biologically plausible associations between microbial pathways and PD, potentially influenced by individual characteristics. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) chronic L-Dopa treatment often triggers motor complications, such as L-Dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). LID are reported to be associated with abnormal glutamatergic activity between the striatum and primary motor cortex (M1), resulting in M1 hyperactivation. Beneficial noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS) paradigms were reported to normalize glutamatergic activity. The objective of the present study was thus to set up a NIBS paradigm in parkinsonian monkeys to investigate motor behavior under basal conditions and with L-Dopa treatment-inducing dyskinesias.\nMotor behavior was investigated in five 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) dyskinetic female \nOne session of c-tDCS with L-Dopa yielded no effect, whereas five sessions briefly reduced LID but decreased the duration of L-Dopa anti-PD effects. cTBS alone improved (decreased) parkinsonian scores as compared to sham stimulation or vehicle alone. Two sessions of cTBS with L-Dopa decreased LID without affecting L-Dopa anti-PD effects.\nThis is the first study testing c-tDCS and cTBS on the motor behavior of MPTP dyskinetic monkeys. As compared to medicated patients, MPTP monkeys offer the opportunity to evaluate NIBS after-effects in drug-free and LID conditions, which are critical in the search for new PD treatment.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Femur fractures and subsequent surgical procedures are expected to increase with the growth of the older population. Despite the elevated risk of postoperative pulmonary complications in older patients, research focusing on those of very advanced age is limited. We aimed to investigate the incidence and risk factors of pulmonary complications following femur fracture surgery in patients \u226580 years.\nThis retrospective cohort study included patients aged \u226580 years admitted to the Orthopedic Surgery Department for femur fracture surgery between 2020 and 2022. We assessed the incidence and risk factors of postoperative pulmonary complications, defined as pneumonia, atelectasis, pulmonary edema, pleural effusion, and venous thromboembolism (VTE). We also examined risk factors for respiratory failure and 90-day mortality, using logistic regression models.\nThe study included 479 patients with a mean age of 86.0 years, and 78.5% were women. Postoperative pulmonary complications occurred in 11.7% of patients, with pleural effusion being the most common (4.4%), followed by pneumonia and atelectasis. The incidence of VTE was 1.5%. Patients who developed pulmonary complications had significantly longer hospital stays (14 days vs 10 days; p<0.001), a greater proportion of patients needing oxygen supplementation (71.4% vs 31.4%; p<0.001), and higher all-cause 90-day mortality (14.3% vs 5.9%; p=0.042). Age, chronic lung disease, and Parkinson's disease were significant risk factors for pulmonary complications. Coronary artery disease, stroke, and prolonged surgery were significantly associated with respiratory failure, whereas internal fixation, coronary artery disease and older age were associated with 90-day mortality. Distal femur fractures were significant risk factors for VTE, while VTE prophylaxis methods were not associated with VTE risk.\nAt least one postoperative pulmonary complication occurred in 11.7% of the participants. Several comorbidities were associated with pulmonary complications, respiratory failure, and 90-day mortality, highlighting the importance of identifying these comorbidities prior to surgery.\nAs global average life expectancy rises, the number of older adults needing femur fracture surgery is also increasing. Advanced age increases the risk of complications after surgery, and many older patients have pre-existing health conditions, making them more likely to experience complications and, in some cases, death. Our study focused on patients aged 80 years or older who underwent femur fracture surgery. We examined the incidence rate of pulmonary complications including venous thromboembolism (blood clots), as well as risk of death within 90 days. Out of the 479 patients studied, 11.7% experienced at least one pulmonary complication after surgery, with pleural effusion being the most common. The overall 90-day death rate was 6.9%, and the rate of venous thromboembolism was 1.5%. Patients who developed pulmonary complications had worse clinical outcomes, including longer hospital stays, extended need for oxygen, and higher death rate within 90 days. We found several health conditions were associated with higher risk of pulmonary complications, such as advanced age, chronic lung diseases, and Parkinson\u2019s disease. Similarly, advanced age and coronary artery disease were identified as risk factors for death within 90 days. Our study findings suggest that pulmonary complications are associated with worse outcomes and various pre-existing health conditions are risk factors for them. As more patients with advanced age are expected to undergo femur fracture surgery, it will be important to carefully assess risk factors to help prevent complications.", 
    "abstract": "Sleep disorder is a common non-motor symptom (NMS) of Parkinson's disease. However, the global research focus on Parkinson's sleep-related disorders (PDSDs) and future trends remains unclear. Currently, there is no bibliometric analysis of PDSDs. We aim to fill this gap, determine the status of current research, and predict future research hotspots.\nWe selected 1490 publications from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) database from 2008 to 2023. Based on CiteSpace and VOSviewer, the analysis was performed from the perspectives of the trend in the number of annual publications, countries, institutions, authors, journals, and co-citations.\nA total of 1490 publications from 590 authors from 409 institutions in 77 countries are included. The United States, China, and the United Kingdom are the leading countries. University College London (UCL) is the most prolific institution. Harvard University is the key for cooperation among institutions. Chaudhuri Kallol Ray is a leader in this field. \"Movement Disorders\" is the most influential journal. \"A systematic review of the literature on disorders of sleep and wakefulness in Parkinson's disease from 2005 to 2015\" is the publication with the highest co-citation intensity.\nThe total volume of publications on PDSDs is on the rise, entering a relatively high-yield stage in 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of new keywords may be the reasons behind this phenomenon. \"quality of life\" and \"circadian rhythm\" are the mainstream topics of PDSD research. Daytime sleepiness is the PDSD subtype that has received the most attention. Sleep quality, biomarkers, and neurodegeneration are likely to become future research hotspots.", 
    "abstract": "The aggregation of \u03b1-synuclein in the nervous system leads to a class of neurodegenerative disorders termed \u03b1-synucleinopathies. A form of primary degenerative dementia called Lewy body dementia (LBD) often develops when these aggregations develop into intracellular inclusions called Lewy bodies (LB) and Lewy neurites (LN). Although high frequency of LBD are the leading cause of dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD), limited information has been discovered about its pathological pathway or diagnostic criteria. In this report, we attempt to address such shortcomings via utilizing a proteomic approach to identify the proteome changes following intrastriatal injection of \u03b1-synuclein pre-formed fibril (\u03b1-syn PFF). Using mass spectrometry, we have identified a total of 179 proteins that were either up- or down-regulated at different time points, with the four proteins-TPP3, RAB10, CAMK2A, and DYNLL1, displaying the most significant changes throughout the timeframe. Through further examining the modulated proteins with network-based enrichment analyses, we have found that (1) the most significantly associated neurodegenerative pathways were Parkinson's (", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease affects millions worldwide and is characterized by alpha-synuclein accumulation and loss of dopaminergic neurons in the brain. Until now, there is no cure for Parkinson's disease, and the existing treatments aim to alleviate symptoms. Parkinson's disease diagnosis is primarily based on clinical observation of bradykinesia, mood, and cognition symptoms. Nonetheless, clinical diagnosis has its drawbacks since symptoms of parkinson's disease only manifest in later stages and can be similar to those of other conditions, such as essential tremors or atypical Parkinsonian syndromes. Molecular imaging techniques, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and positron emission tomography (PET), can objectively detect changes in the brain's neurochemical processes and help diagnose and study neurodegenerative diseases. The paper discusses functional imaging objectives, the tracers employed for imaging, and the condition of each target in Parkinson's disease. Functional imaging can bestow invaluable revelations concerning the intricate mechanisms underlying both motor and nonmotor impairments in Parkinson's disease while concurrently illuminating the involvement of striatal dopamine in behavioral phenomena extending beyond mere motor regulation. Furthermore, this cutting-edge technology exhibits great potential in investigating the preclinical stage of the ailment, thereby enhancing our comprehension of the merits and limitations associated with surgical interventions and the efficacy of neuroprotective approaches.", 
    "abstract": "We established a prospective cohort study to investigate the differences in motor and non-motor symptoms between idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) and Parkinson's disease in carriers of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene risk variants (LRRK2-PD).\nThe study included 1407 individuals with IPD and 649 individuals with LRRK2-PD (comprising 304 with LRRK2-G2385R, 220 with LRRK2-R1628P, and 105 with LRRK2-A419V). Differences in symptoms between LRRK2-PD and IPD were analyzed using LCMM modeling and Cox regression analysis.\nThe LRRK2-G2385R variant showed slower progression in tremor symptoms and excessive daytime sleepiness compared with IPD. In contrast, symptoms associated with LRRK2-R1628P and LRRK2-A419V were more similar to those of IPD. Survival analysis revealed that LRRK2-PD does not affect life expectancy compared with IPD.\nOur extended longitudinal follow-up of LRRK2-PD in the Chinese population provided valuable insights, further confirming the clinical characteristics of the three LRRK2 variants.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD), as a refractory neurological disorder with complex etiology, currently lacks effective therapeutic agents. Natural products (NPs), derived from plants, animals, or microbes, have shown promising effects in PD models through their antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties, as well as the enhancement of mitochondrial homeostasis and autophagy. The misfolding and deposition of \u03b1-Synuclein (\u03b1-Syn), due to abnormal overproduction and impaired clearance, being central to the death of dopamine (DA) neurons. Thus, inhibiting \u03b1-Syn misfolding and aggregation has become a critical focus in PD discovery. This review highlights NPs that can reduce \u03b1-Syn aggregation by preventing its overproduction and misfolding, emphasizing their potential as novel drugs or adjunctive therapies for PD treatment, thereby providing further insights for clinical translation.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is one the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder, leading to motor and non-motor symptoms, including deficits in executive functions (EF), memory, visuospatial abilities, and psychomotor speed. Current treatments are primarily symptomatic, involving pharmacological, surgical strategies. Neurologic Music Therapy (NMT) has gained recognition for its effectiveness in neurorehabilitation of PD patients and improving motor and cognitive domains, such as EF. This study combines NMT with the virtual reality (VR) platform Computer-Assisted Rehabilitation Environment (CAREN), offering customizable environments for rhythmic cue practice to provide an innovative approach to Parkinson's rehabilitation.\nIn our single-blind quasi-randomized controlled trial, forty patients were assigned to either an experimental group (EG\u00a0=\u00a020) or a control group (CG\u00a0=\u00a020). Both groups underwent two months of training with CAREN scenarios (three times a week for 24 sessions). The experimental group additionally received NMT applied to the selected scenarios. Participants were evaluated by a neuropsychologist at baseline and immediately after training.\nIntra-group analysis showed significant improvements in the EG for MOCA (p\u00a0=\u00a00.007), FAB (p\u00a0=\u00a00.008), Stroop Error (p\u00a0=\u00a00.003), Stroop Time (p\u00a0<\u00a00.001), and Visual Search (p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). The CG showed a significant difference only in Stroop Error (p\u00a0=\u00a00.02).\nThis pilot study is the first to combine NMT with CAREN in PD patients. Our findings suggest that NMT, within an immersive VR environment, effectively improves cognitive and EF in PD. Music structured within NMT techniques, coupled with advanced audio-visual feedback from VR, offers an innovative and potentially more effective approach for managing cognitive and executive deficits associated with PD.", 
    "abstract": "Ultrasound (US) has emerged as a noninvasive neurostimulation method for motor control in Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous in\u00a0vivo US neuromodulation studies for PD were single-target stimulation. However, the motor symptoms of PD are linked with neural circuit dysfunction, and multi-target stimulation is conducted in clinical treatment for PD. Thus, in the present study, we achieved multi-target US stimulation using holographic lens transducer based on the Rayleigh-Sommerfeld diffraction integral and time-reversal methods. We demonstrated that holographic US stimulation of the bilateral dorsal striatum (DS) could improve the motor function in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mouse model of PD. The holographic US wave (fundamental frequency: 3 MHz, pulse repetition frequency: 500 Hz, duty cycle: 20%, tone-burst duration: 0.4 ms, sonication duration: 1 s, interstimulus interval: 4 s, spatial-peak temporal-average intensity: 180 mw/cm", 
    "abstract": "Neural underpinnings of Parkinson's disease psychosis remain unclear to this day with relatively few studies and reviews available. Using a systematic review approach, here, we aimed to qualitatively synthesize evidence from studies investigating Parkinson's psychosis-specific alterations in brain structure, function or chemistry using different neuroimaging modalities. PubMed, Web of Science and Embase databases were searched for functional MRI (task-based and resting state), diffusion tensor imaging, PET and single-photon emission computed tomography studies comparing Parkinson's disease psychosis patients with Parkinson's patients without psychosis. We report findings from 29 studies (514 Parkinson's psychosis patients, mean age \u00b1 SD = 67.92 \u00b1 4.37 years; 51.36% males; 853 Parkinson's patients, mean age \u00b1 SD = 66.75 \u00b1 4.19 years; 55.81% males). Qualitative synthesis revealed widespread patterns of altered brain function across task-based and resting-state functional MRI studies in Parkinson's psychosis patients compared with Parkinson's patients without psychosis. Similarly, white matter abnormalities were reported in parietal, temporal and occipital regions. Hypo-metabolism and reduced dopamine transporter binding were also reported whole brain and in sub-cortical areas. This suggests extensive alterations affecting regions involved in high-order visual processing and attentional networks.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies have evaluated the safety and efficacy of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the mechanism underlying the effect of taVNS on PD remains to be elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the immediate effects of taVNS in PD patients.\nThis crossover self-controlled study included 50 PD patients. Each patient underwent three sessions of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) under three conditions: real taVNS, sham taVNS, and no taVNS intervention. We analyzed whole-brain amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) from preprocessed fMRI data across different intervention conditions. ALFF values in altered brain regions were correlated with clinical symptoms in PD patients.\nForty-seven participants completed the study and were included in the final analysis. Real taVNS was associated with a widespread decrease in ALFF in the right hemisphere, including the superior parietal lobule, precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, middle occipital gyrus, and cuneus (voxel \nTaVNS could immediately modulate the functional activity of brain regions involved in superior parietal lobule, precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, middle occipital gyrus, and cuneus. These findings offer preliminary insights into the mechanism of taVNS in treating PD and bolster confidence in its long-term therapeutic potential. TaVNS appears to reduce ALFF values in specific brain regions, suggesting a potential modulation mechanism for treating PD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) and other synucleinopathies are characterized by the aggregation and deposition of alpha-synuclein (", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are the most common neurodegenerative diseases. Their treatment options are rather limited, and no neuroprotective or disease-modifying treatments are available. Anti-diabetic drugs, such as glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) agonists, have been suggested as a potential therapeutic option.\nAssess \nAD, PD patients and healthy control subjects were included in the study. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease were measured in AD patients, while cognitive impairment was evaluated in PD. All participants were genotyped for three SNPs: ", 
    "abstract": "Mast cells (MCs) are tissue resident cells of the immune system, mainly known for their role in allergy. However, mounting evidence indicates their involvement in the pathology of age-related diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and cancer. MC numbers increase in aged tissues, but how ageing affects MCs is poorly understood.\nWe show that MC ageing is associated with the increased expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p16 \nThe inducible expression of p16", 
    "abstract": "Microbial melanins possess a broad spectrum of biological activities. However, there is little understanding of their neuroprotective and neuronal cell differentiation properties. This study aimed to extract, purify, and modify melanins from two medicinal fungi (Daedaleopsis tricolor and Fomes fomentarius), and to evaluate their antioxidant activity, as well as their cell protective ability against neurotoxins. In addition, the study also investigated the feasibility of combining melanins or modified melanins with retinoic acid (RA) to induce neuronal differentiation.\nMelanin was extracted and purified using alkaline acid-based methods. Antioxidant activities and neuroprotective effects were evaluated using the DPPH (1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl) and MTT (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide) assays, respectively. In addition, morphological changes of SH-SY5Y cells were recorded by using a Pannoramic MIDI scanner.\nAll melanins and arginine-modified melanins displayed mild DPPH scavenging activities, which were statistically lower than that of ascorbic acid (p < 0.05). In terms of neuroprotection, both melanins and arginine-modified melanins exhibited significant cell protection against H\nThe arginine-modified melanins of D. tricolor and F. fomentarius have potential for neuroprotection against Parkinsonian neurotoxins. In addition, the arginine-modified melanin of D. tricolor may serve as an excellent material for research in neuroblastoma treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Infertility is a reproductive health problem that attracts worldwide attention. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a major cause of female infertility and patients with obesity and PCOS are particularly common in clinical practice. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNAs) are a functional core in cells that regulate gene expression, transcription, and chromatin modification processes, and participate in epigenetics, cell cycle, and cell differentiation. LncRNAs are assumed to play a role in the occurrence and development of PCOS; however, their specific mechanism of action remains to be elucidated.\nHigh-throughput sequencing technology has been used to sequence and analyze lncRNAs in exosomes from the follicular fluid of patients with obesity and PCOS and those who underwent assisted reproductive therapy owing to male factors. Specific expression profiles of patients with obesity and PCOS were obtained and functional information analysis combined with a literature review were performed to screen for differentially expressed lncRNAs, which were validated using real-time reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).\nHigh-throughput sequencing analysis revealed that compared to normal patients with male infertility, patients with obesity and PCOS had a total of 20 lncRNAs with significant expression differences in follicular fluid exosomes. Among them, 17 lncRNAs were upregulated and three were downregulated. Functional analysis showed that differentially expressed genes were mainly enriched in \"cell metabolism,\" \"cell adhesion,\" and other aspects: related gene pathways mainly involved Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, spliceosomes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and ribosomes. Verification of differentially expressed lncRNAs revealed that the expression of lncRNAs TPT1-AS1, PTOV1-AS1, PTPRG-AS1, and SNHG14 in follicular fluid exosomes was consistent with the sequencing results.\nA preliminary differential expression profile of lncRNAs in exosomes of patients with obesity and PCOS was established by transcriptomic analysis of these individuals. Our bioinformatics analysis results may be applicable to further study of the impact mechanism involving obesity and PCOS. These differentially expressed lncRNAs maybe served as potential biomarkers for in-depth studies of the occurrence, development on Follicle quality and function for patients with PCOS in the future.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to assess the reproducibility of MRI-derived radiomic features across multiple preprocessing methods for classifying Parkinson's disease (PD) motor subtypes and to evaluate the impact of ComBat harmonization on feature stability and machine learning performance. T1-weighted MRI scans from 140 PD patients (70 tremor-dominant and 70 postural instability gait difficulty) and 70 healthy controls were obtained from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) database, acquired using different scanner models. Radiomic features were extracted from 16 brain regions using various preprocessing pipelines. ComBat harmonization was applied using a combined batch variable incorporating both scanner models and preprocessing methods. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and Kruskal-Wallis tests assessed feature reproducibility before and after harmonization. Feature selection was performed using Linear Support Vector Classifier with L1 regularization. Support vector machine classifiers were used for PD subtype classification. ComBat harmonization significantly improved feature reproducibility across all feature groups. The percentage of features showing excellent robustness (ICC\u2009\u2265\u20090.90) increased from 40.2 to 56.3% after harmonization. First-order statistic features showed the highest robustness, with 71.11% demonstrating excellent ICC after harmonization. The proportion of features significantly affected by preprocessing methods was reduced following harmonization. Classification accuracy improved dramatically, from a range of 34-75% before harmonization to 89-96% after harmonization across all preprocessing methods. AUC values similarly increased from 0.28-0.87 to 0.95-0.99 after harmonization. ComBat harmonization significantly enhanced the reproducibility of radiomic features across preprocessing methods and improved PD motor subtype classification performance. This study highlights the importance of harmonization in radiomics research for PD and suggests potential clinical applications in personalized treatment planning.", 
    "abstract": "The increasing prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases has recently heightened interest in research on early diagnosis of these diseases. Parkinson's disease (PD), among the most prominent of these conditions, is a neurological disorder causing the loss of nerve cells and significantly affecting movement control. Detection of PD in early stages is of critical importance to prevent the progression of the disease and improve treatment processes. The aim of the current study is to develop a deep learning model that can perform accurate classification for early diagnosis of PD from MRI images. In this study, a densely connected feature fusion network with residual learning is designed to diagnose PD patients. The designed network consists of a serial dense block with skip connections and efficient attention mechanisms. In this architecture, squeeze-excitation (SE) blocks with ResNeXt (SE-ResNeXt block) modules are utilized to extract distinctive and high-level features. In the experiments, a publicly available T2-weighted MRI dataset is used, and an offline augmentation process is applied to limited data to increase the generalization ability and classification performance. The proposed method is evaluated and compared with current state-of-the-art deep learning methods. The obtained results show that the proposed model gives higher classification performance with an overall accuracy of 94.44%, precision of 91.67%, sensitivity of 91.67%, specificity of 95.83%, F1-score of 91.67%, and Matthew's correlation coefficient of 87.50% for the PD and healthy control subjects.", 
    "abstract": "Brain metabolism perturbation can contribute to traits and diseases. We conducted a genome-wide association study for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain metabolite levels, identifying 205 independent associations (47.3% new signals, containing 11 new loci) for 139 CSF metabolites, and 32 independent associations (43.8% new signals, containing 4 new loci) for 31 brain metabolites. Of these, 96.9% (CSF) and 71.4% (brain) of the new signals belonged to previously analyzed metabolites in blood or urine. We integrated the metabolite quantitative trait loci (MQTLs) with 23 neurological, psychiatric and common human traits and diseases through colocalization to identify metabolites and biological processes implicated in these phenotypes. Combining CSF and brain, we identified 71 metabolite-trait associations, such as glycerophosphocholines with Alzheimer's disease, O-sulfo-L-tyrosine with Parkinson's disease, glycine, xanthine with waist-to-hip ratio and ergothioneine with inflammatory bowel disease. Our study expanded the knowledge of MQTLs in the central nervous system, providing insights into human traits.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to identify potential markers that can predict Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment (PDMCI). We retrospectively collected general demographic data, clinically relevant scales, plasma samples, and neuroimaging data (T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data as well as resting-state functional MRI [Rs-fMRI] data) from 173 individuals. Subsequently, based on the aforementioned multimodal indices, a support vector machine was employed to investigate the machine learning (ML) classification of PD patients with normal cognition (PDNC) and PDMCI. The performance of 29 classifiers was assessed based on various combinations of indicators. Results demonstrated that the optimal classifier in the validation set was composed by clinical + Rs-fMRI+ neurofilament light chain, exhibiting a mean Accuracy of 0.762, a mean area under curve of 0.840, a mean sensitivity of 0.745, along with a mean specificity of 0.783. The ML algorithm based on multimodal data demonstrated enhanced discriminative ability between PDNC and PDMCI patients.", 
    "abstract": "Immunotherapeutic strategies for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease would be facilitated by better measures of inflammation. Here we established an ultra-sensitive single-molecule pull-down immunoassay combined with direct stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (dSTORM) to measure the number, size and shape of individual extracellular inflammasome ASC specks. We assayed human post-mortem brain, serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Parkinson's and Alzheimer's as well as healthy elderly. The number of ASC specks increased and showed altered morphology in the blood of early-stage Parkinson's and Alzheimer's patients compared to controls, mimicking those found in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid. In serum samples we also measured the number of A\u03b2, p-tau and \u03b1-syn aggregates and formed a composite biomarker of (ASC\u2009+\u2009p-tau)/A\u03b2 and (ASC\u2009+\u2009\u03b1-syn)/A\u03b2 ratios that distinguished age-matched healthy controls from patients with early-stage Alzheimer's with AUC of 92% and early-stage Parkinson's with AUC of 97%. Our findings confirm ASC specks as a fluid candidate biomarker of inflammation for neurodegenerative diseases with blood being the main focus for further development as convenient sample for diagnostics and clinical trials.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor dysfunction and dopamine deficits. The MitoPark (MP) mouse model of PD recapitulates several facets of Parkinson's disease, including gradual development of motor deficits, which enables the study of potential therapeutic interventions. One therapeutic strategy involves decreasing the mitochondrial metabolic load by inducing ketosis and providing an alternative energy source for neurons, leading to decreased neuronal oxidative stress. Thus, we hypothesized that administration of a ketone ester-enriched diet (KEED) would improve motor and dopamine release deficits in MP mice. Motor function (rotarod and open field tests), dopamine release (fast-scan cyclic voltammetry), tissue dopamine levels (gas chromatography-mass spectrometry) and dopamine neurons and axons (immunofluorescence) were assessed in MP, and control mice fed either the standard or a KEED. When started on the ketone diet before motor dysfunction onset, MP mice had improved motor function relative to standard diet (SD) MP mice. While the KEED did not preserve dopamine neurons or striatal dopamine axons, dopamine release in ketone diet MP mice was greater than SD MP mice but less than control mice. In a follow-up experiment, we began the ketone diet after motor dysfunction onset and observed a modest preservation of motor function in ketone diet MP mice relative to SD MP mice. The improvement in motor dysfunction indicates that a KEED or ketone supplement may have a beneficial effect on delaying motor deficit progression in Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "The accumulation of aggregated \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn) is a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) and other synucleinopathies. Here within, we report the in vitro characterization targeting site 2 of \u03b1-syn fibrils and in vivo evaluation of NHPs of KAC-50.1 as a potential \u03b1-syn positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand. Preclinical studies were performed using a multidimensional approach of post-mortem brain imaging techniques, radioligand binding, and biochemical studies. These experiments were followed by PET imaging in cynomolgus monkeys using [", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases, as common diseases in the elderly, tend to become younger due to environmental changes, social development and other factors. They are mainly characterized by progressive loss or dysfunction of neurons in the central or peripheral nervous system, and common diseases include Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease and so on. Mitochondria are important organelles for adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production in the brain. In recent years, a large amount of evidence has shown that mitochondrial dysfunction plays a direct role in neurodegenerative diseases, which is expected to provide new ideas for the treatment of related diseases. This review will summarize the main mechanisms of mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases, as well as collating recent advances in the study of mitochondrial disorders and new therapies.", 
    "abstract": "The use of photoresponsive ligands to optically control proteins of interest, known as photopharmacology, is a powerful technique for elucidating cellular function in living cells and animals with a high spatiotemporal resolution. The adenosine A", 
    "abstract": "Mutations in GBA (glucosylceramidase beta), which encodes the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GCase), are the strongest genetic risk factor for the neurodegenerative disorders Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia. Recent work has suggested that neuroinflammation may be an important factor in the risk conferred by GBA mutations. We therefore systematically tested the contributions of immune-related genes to neuropathology in a Drosophila model of GCase deficiency. We identified target immune factors via RNA-Seq and proteomics on heads from GCase-deficient flies, which revealed both increased abundance of humoral factors and increased macrophage activation. We then manipulated the identified immune factors and measured their effect on head protein aggregates, a hallmark of neurodegenerative disease. Genetic ablation of humoral (secreted) immune factors did not suppress the development of protein aggregation. By contrast, re-expressing Gba1b in activated macrophages suppressed head protein aggregation in Gba1b mutants and rescued their lifespan and behavioral deficits. Moreover, reducing the GCase substrate glucosylceramide in activated macrophages also ameliorated Gba1b mutant phenotypes. Taken together, our findings show that glucosylceramide accumulation due to GCase deficiency leads to macrophage activation, which in turn promotes the development of neuropathology.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder that progresses over time, is steadily growing in number and prevalence worldwide. PD in Malaysia is expected to increase five-fold by 2040 from the existing estimate of 20,000 patients in 2018. Treatment program of PD in Malaysia is rather unstructured, and there is no known comprehensive PD family caregiver training program available to date. To ensure the quality of a program, it must be tested for feasibility, effectiveness and sustainability. This paper describes the protocol of a study that evaluates the effectiveness of a structured, comprehensive training program of family caregiver to persons with PD in comparison to usual care.\nA total of 60 pairs of persons with PD of stage II and III, and their primary family caregiver will be recruited and allocated into either an experimental or a control group for 12 weeks of intervention. The experimental group will undergo initial training from multi-disciplinary healthcare providers and will be given a physical module containing weekly tasks that must be practised at home. While the control group will receive a usual care. Both groups will be assessed in terms of physical functions, functional mobility, quality of life (QoL), caregiver burden and knowledge using standardised assessment tools namely Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS), Timed Up and Go (TUG) test, Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39), European Quality of Life five-dimensions (EQ-5D), Malay version of Zarit Burden Interview (MZBI) and Knowledge of Parkinson Disease Questionnaire (KPDQ). In addition, the feasibility and sustainability of the interventions will be evaluated, alongside its cost-effectiveness based on the average and incremental cost effectiveness ratio. All data will be analysed using descriptive and inferential statistics, particularly mixed model ANOVA.\nThere is a significant gap in the literature pertaining family caregiver training programs for people with PD. Documented programs are lacking in term of comprehensiveness of content, application approach and the measurement of training outcomes including the program cost-effectiveness. The feasibility and effectiveness of such training program in a Malaysian setting also requires investigation due to differences in living environment, support system and population's perception. This study will assist to fulfil the existing literature gap and demonstrate the potential benefit of caregiver involvement in mediating the care and therapy for PD in the home setting. Optimum knowledge and skills gained through the training are expected to enhance the confidence and ability of the family caregivers and may possibly reduce their perceived caregiving burden.\nThe protocol of this study is registered in the Australian-New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry (ANZCTR) with a registration number ACTRN12623000336684.", 
    "abstract": "Freezing of gait (FOG) in Parkinson's disease has a complex neurological mechanism. Compared with other modalities, electroencephalogram (EEG) can reflect FOG-related brain activity of both motor and non-motor symptoms. However, EEG-based FOG prediction methods often extract time, spatial, frequency, time-frequency, or phase information separately, which fragments the coupling among these heterogeneous features and cannot completely characterize the brain dynamics when FOG occurs.\nIn this study, dynamic spatiotemporal coherent modes of EEG were studied and used for FOG detection and prediction. A dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) method was first applied to extract the spatiotemporal coherent modes. Dynamic changes of the spatiotemporal modes, in both amplitude and phase of motor-related frequency bands, were evaluated with analytic common spatial patterns (ACSP) to extract the essential differences among normal, freezing, and transitional gaits.\nThe proposed method was verified in practical clinical data. Results showed that, in the detection task, the DMD-ACSP achieved an accuracy of 86.4 \u00b1 3.6% and a sensitivity of 83.5 \u00b1 4.3%. In the prediction task, 86.5 \u00b1 3.2% accuracy and 86.7 \u00b1 7.8% sensitivity were achieved.\nComparative studies showed that the DMD-ACSP method significantly improves FOG detection and prediction performance. Moreover, the DMD-ACSP reveals the spatial patterns of dynamic brain functional connectivity, which best discriminate the different gaits.\nThe spatiotemporal coherent modes may provide a useful indication for personalized intervention and transcranial magnetic stimulation neuromodulation in medical practices.", 
    "abstract": "Atrazine (ATR), one of the most prevalent herbicides used worldwide, has been associated with various environmental health concerns, including its potential role in promoting neurodegenerative diseases. Considering the pivotal role of metal homeostasis in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders, this study investigated the neuroprotective effects of copper supplementation in mitigating the adverse impacts of ATR in Parkinson's disease (PD). Our results reveal that ATR exposure disrupts copper and iron homeostasis within the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), leading to enhanced oxidative stress and dopaminergic neuronal degeneration, which are key features of PD pathology. Remarkably, copper supplementation is able to counteract these neurotoxic effects, as demonstrated by the restoration of metal equilibrium in the SNpc, decreased lipid peroxidation, and improvements in motor function in PD rats. These results highlight the intricate relationship between environmental toxins and metal homeostasis in the genesis of neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Nan Bao detox capsule (NBDC), derived from ancient Chinese opioid detox protocols, shows promising therapeutic potential in substance abuse disorders, particularly for attenuating methamphetamine (MA) addiction. This study aimed to identify active ingredients, evaluate therapeutic efficacy in an MA addiction rat model and delineate pharmacodynamic mechanisms using metabolomics. In vitro phytochemical profiling characterized 258 drug-related compounds, with 87 prototype entities mainly identified in rat plasma. NBDC significantly attenuated METH-induced behavioural anomalies and modulated neurotransmitter levels, notably increasing brain DA and serotonin (5-HT) content with concomitant upregulation of D1 dopamine receptor (DRD1) and 5-HT1A receptor (5-HT1AR) expression, ameliorating hippocampal pathology. Metabolomic analysis identified histamine receptor as a potential target and revealed the involvement of NBDC in metabolic pathways associated with cocaine addiction, amphetamine abuse and Parkinson's disease. Conclusively, NBDC presents a promising therapeutic agent for mitigating MA addiction through a synergistic interplay of multiple constituents, pharmacological targets and metabolic pathways.", 
    "abstract": "Emerging evidence has shown a strong correlation between serum triacylglycerol (TAG) levels, the inflammatory response, and Parkinson's disease (PD) onset. However, the causal relationship between TAG levels and PD has not been well-established. We aimed to investigate the relationship between serum TAG levels and risk of PD and explore the potential mediating role of circulating immune cells and inflammatory proteins. We utilised genotype data from the GeneRISK cohort, and summary data from genome wide association studies investigating PD, circulating immune cells, inflammatory proteins, and plasma lipidomes. Using Mendelian randomization (MR) and multivariate MR (MVMR) analysis, we further adjusted for phosphatidylcholine (17:0_18:1) and triacylglycerol (58:7). Our results suggested a robust causal link between higher serum TAG (51:4) levels and a decreased risk of PD, with one standard deviation genetically instrumented higher serum TAG (51:4) level leading to a 21 percent [95% CI, 0.66 - 0.96] reduction in the risk of PD (p = 0.015). Additionally, the results of the mediation analysis suggested a possible role for mediation through circulating immune cells (including IgD-CD38-B cells and resting CD4 regulatory T cells), but not circulating inflammatory proteins, in the causal relationship between the plasma lipidomes and PD. Our study confirms a causal relationship between higher serum TAG (51:4) levels and a lower risk of PD and clarifies a possible role for mediation through circulating immune cells, but not inflammatory proteins. These findings indicate that serum triacylglycerol (51:4) regulates immunity to effectively lower the risk of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Neurovascular unit (NVU) inflammation via activation of glial cells and neuronal damage plays a critical role in neurodegenerative diseases. Though the exact mechanism of disease pathogenesis is not understood, certain biomarkers provide valuable insight into the disease pathogenesis, severity, progression and therapeutic efficacy. These markers can be used to assess pathophysiological status of brain cells including neurons, astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, specialized microvascular endothelial cells, pericytes, NVU, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption. Damage or derangements in tight junction (TJ), adherens junction (AdJ), and gap junction (GJ) components of the BBB lead to increased permeability and neuroinflammation in various brain disorders including neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, neuroinflammatory markers can be evaluated in blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), or brain tissues to determine neurological disease severity, progression, and therapeutic responsiveness. Chronic inflammation is common in age-related neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and dementia. Neurotrauma/traumatic brain injury (TBI) also leads to acute and chronic neuroinflammatory responses. The expression of some markers may also be altered many years or even decades before the onset of neurodegenerative disorders. In this review, we discuss markers of neuroinflammation, and neurodegeneration associated with acute and chronic brain disorders, especially those associated with neurovascular pathologies. These biomarkers can be evaluated in CSF, or brain tissues. Neurofilament light (NfL), ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCHL1), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), Ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba-1), transmembrane protein 119 (TMEM119), aquaporin, endothelin-1, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFR\u03b2) are some important neuroinflammatory markers. Recent BBB-on-a-chip modeling offers promising potential for providing an in-depth understanding of brain disorders and neurotherapeutics. Integration of these markers in clinical practice could potentially enhance early diagnosis, monitor disease progression, and improve therapeutic outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a standard treatment for movement disorders, epilepsy, and others, yet its influence on postprocedural sleep quality remains an under-researched topic.\nWe performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of all DBS effects on sleep.\nThe use of preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses guidelines (PRISMA) was utilized. We extracted demographic data, disease type/duration, DBS target, stimulation laterality (unilateral vs bilateral), follow-up lengths, and sleep pre/post-op measurements with polysomnography or across four standard sleep scales. The Cochrane methodology for evaluating RCTs was employed using the risk of bias assessments, data synthesis, and statistical methods, including forest plots (risk ratio; M-H random effects; 95% CI).\nSixty-three studies were included in the overall analysis, representing 3022 patients. In a subgroup meta-analysis of subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS for Parkinson's disease (PD), patients showed significant sleep improvement at three but not 12 months postoperatively with PDSS, at 12 but not 3 months with Epworth sleep scale, and at 6 months with nonmotor symptom scale. Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI) showed no significant improvement in sleep at any time. Bilateral DBS showed significantly more improvement than unilateral DBS in the PSQI at 6 but not 3 months. Polysomnography showed significant sleep improvement at 1 week but not at 3 or 6 months. Most studies showed no significant sleep improvement for globus pallidus internus, centromedian thalamus, and ventral intermediate nucleus DBS.\nSTN-DBS for PD likely improves sleep; however, significant standardization in sleep scale outcome reporting and follow-up time is needed to effectively determine the target-dependent effects of DBS surgery on sleep.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases are among the major challenges in modern medicine, due to the progressive aging of the world population. Among these, Parkinson's disease (PD) affects 10 million people worldwide and is associated with the aggregation of the presynaptic protein \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn). Here we use two different PD models, yeast cells and neuroblastoma cells overexpressing \u03b1-syn, to investigate the protective effect of an extract from the cocoa shell, which is a by-product of the roasting process of cocoa beans. The LC-ESI-qTOF-MS and NMR analyses allow the identification of amino acids (including the essential ones), organic acids, lactate and glycerol, confirming also the presence of the two methylxanthines, namely caffeine and theobromine. The present study demonstrates that the supplementation with the cocoa bean shell extract (CBSE) strongly improves the longevity of yeast cells expressing \u03b1-syn, reducing the level of reactive oxygen species, activating autophagy and reducing the intracellular protein aggresomes. These anti-aggregation properties are confirmed also in neuroblastoma cells, where CBSE treatment leads to activation of AMPK kinase and to a significant reduction of toxic \u03b1-syn oligomers. Results obtained by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assay highlights that CBSE binds \u03b1-syn protein in a concentration-dependent manner, supporting its inhibitory role on the amyloid aggregation of \u03b1-syn. These findings suggest that the supplementation with CBSE in the form of nutraceuticals may represent a promising way to prevent neurodegenerative diseases associated with \u03b1-syn aggregation.", 
    "abstract": "Drug repurposing, also known as drug repositioning, involves identifying new applications for drugs whose effects in a disease are already established. Doxycycline, a broad-spectrum antibiotic belonging to the tetracycline class, has demonstrated potential activity against neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. However, despite its promise, the repurposed use of doxycycline encounters challenges in reaching the brain in adequate concentrations to exert its effects. To address this issue, nanostructured systems offer an innovative approach that can enhance brain targeting and the desired therapeutic outcomes. This review discusses the advances in doxycycline repurposing for Alzheimer's disease, presenting physicochemical and biological aspects that permeate doxycycline's repositioning and its application in nano-based delivery systems.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that manifests with both motor and non-motor symptoms, with \u03b1-synuclein misfolding recognized as a key contributor. Cognitive decline in advanced PD stages prompts interest in amyloid deposition, a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), as a potential factor. This study explores the impact of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) pathology in PD patients on disease progression, aiming to elucidate the role of A\u03b2 in PD development and progression.\nThis study included autopsy-confirmed PD patients with post-mortem analyses from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative. Comprehensive clinical assessments, including demographic data, clinical features, CSF markers, and neuroimaging, were conducted. Statistical analyses assessed differences between groups based on the severity of AD neuropathological changes.\nAll 16 PD participants exhibited severe Lewy body pathology, with 75\u00a0% displaying AD neuropathological changes. At baseline, PD patients with severe or moderate AD neuropathological changes had a lower A\u03b242 levels (\nThe study underscores the presence of severe A\u03b2 pathology in PD, suggesting a role in accelerated disease progression. Cross-seeding between A\u03b2 and \u03b1-synuclein may contribute to rapid clinical symptom progression. Further research is needed for a comprehensive understanding of neurodegenerative disease complexities and exploring potential therapeutic interventions targeting protein aggregation.", 
    "abstract": "Catechol-", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases are central or peripheral nervous system disorders associated with progressive brain cell degeneration. Common neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have been widely studied. However, current therapeutics only reduce the symptoms and do not ameliorate the pathogenesis of these diseases. Recent studies suggested the roles of neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and oxidative stress in neurodegenerative diseases. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exert anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidative effects. Therefore, investigating the effects of MSCs and their applications may lead to the discovery of more effective therapies for neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we review different approaches used to identify therapies for neurodegenerative diseases using MSCs.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disease entity characterized by heterogeneity of symptoms and progression. Levodopa is an efficacious and well tolerated dopamine substituting drug for its therapy. Its O-methylation and generation of 3-O-methyldopa is enhanced by levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor formulations. Additional inhibition of catechol-O-methyltransferase is the relevant add on therapy for levodopa application. This pharmacologic approach increases the plasma appearance of levodopa and reduces 3-O-methyldopa synthesis. Available marketed compounds are entacapone, tolcapone and opicapone. Data on their effects on levodopa pharmacokinetics in patients are rare.\nThis review describes the impact of this add-on therapy on the pharmacokinetic profile of levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa in plasma. The rationale was to perform a comparison with data from previously published pharmacokinetic trials with a standardized one time intake of levodopa/carbidopa without and with the available catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors.\nResults of this analysis identified opicapone as the most efficacious inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase in terms of changes of levodopa plasma concentrations. Opicapone induced higher levodopa plasma levels compared with the ones following application of levodopa/carbidopa alone or combined with entacapone or tolcapone. Co-administration of opicapone with its once daily intake regimen may support the efficacy of subcutaneous and intrajejunal levodopa infusions.", 
    "abstract": "Behavioural symptoms are common manifestations of Parkinson's disease (PD). Early behavioural symptoms characterise mild behavioural impairment (MBI). The prevalence and intensity of MBI in people with PD (PwP) have been studied across various cohorts. However, methodological differences have obscured our understanding of MBI in these individuals. This systematic review examines and synthesises findings from relevant studies, enhancing understanding of the symptoms and implications of MBI in PD. Nine studies from five separate research institutions were identified. The conceptualisation of MBI varied considerably, affecting the reported prevalence rates of MBI in individuals with early-stage PD. Among PwP, MBI was associated higher education and impaired cognition. Affective dysregulation and impulse control disorders were primary contributors to MBI; abnormal perception was least contributor. This systematic review underscores the specific characteristics and incidence of MBI in early-stage PD. Mood and impulse control disorders are primary concerns associated with MBI. Future longitudinal studies are required to clarify the progression of these symptoms and evaluate MBI's potential as an indicator for PD-related dementia or increased dependency.", 
    "abstract": "The exact cause of the parkinsonism gait remains uncertain. We first focus on understanding the underlying neurological reasons for these symptoms through the examination of both static functional network connectivity (SFNC) and dynamic functional network connectivity (DFNC).\nWe recruited 64 postural instability and gait disorder-dominated Parkinson's disease (PIGD-PD) patients, 31 non-PIGD-PD (nPIGD-PD) patients, and 54 healthy controls (HC) from Nanjing Brain Hospital. The GIFT software identified five distinct independent components: the basal ganglia (BG), cerebellum (CB), sensory networks (SMN), default mode network (DMN), and central executive network (CEN). We conducted a comparison between the SFNC and DFNC of the five networks and analyzed their correlations with postural instability and gait disorder (PIGD) symptoms.\nCompared with nPIGD-PD patients, the PIGD-PD patients demonstrated reduced connectivity between CEN and DMN while spending less mean dwell time (MDT) in state 4. This is characterized by strong connections. Compared with HC, PIGD-PD patients exhibited enhanced connectivity in the SFNC between CB and CEN, as well as the network between CB and DMN. Patients with PIGD-PD spent more MDT in state 1, which is characterized by few connections, and less MDT in state 4. In state 3, there was an increase in the functional connectivity between the CB and DMN in patients with PIGD-PD. The nPIGD patients showed increased SFNC connectivity between CB and DMN compared to HC. These patients spent more MDT in state 1 and less in state 4. The MDT and fractional windows of state 2 showed a positive link with PIGD scores.\nPatients with PIGD-PD exhibit a higher likelihood of experiencing reduced brain connectivity and impaired information processing. The enhanced connection between the cerebellum and DMN networks is considered a type of dynamic compensation.", 
    "abstract": "Deciphering the molecular communications along the gut-brain axis can help in understanding the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases and exploiting the gut microbiome for therapeutics. However, gut microbes and their metabolites have a multifaceted role in mediating both brain physiology and neurodegenerative pathology. There is a lack of understanding of how and when this role is tipped in neurodegenerative diseases and what are those contributing factors, both at local (gut) and distal (neuronal) levels, that drive this imbalance. Here we have reviewed the gut microbiome and its metabolites in the context of the gut-brain axis and summarized how different factors such as gut-microbial diversity, their metabolites, the role of the native immune system and the integrity of gut epithelial and blood-brain barriers are interconnected and collectively define the involvement of gut-microbiome in neurodegenerative pathologies. It also underlines the need for multidisciplinary tools and animal models to simultaneously reflect on many of these factors and to better correlate with clinical observations and data obtained from human biopsies and fecal samples. Harnessing the gut-brain axis will herald a paradigm shift in medicine for neurodegenerative diseases and aging, emphasizing the significance of the microbiome in the broader spectrum of health and disease.", 
    "abstract": "The characteristic neuropathology of Parkinson's disease (PD) involves the abnormal accumulation of phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1Syn), as well as a significant decrease in neuromelanin (NM) levels within dopamine neurons (DaNs). Unlike \u03b1Syn aggregates, the relationship between NM levels and PD pathogenesis is not well understood. In this study, we engineered an E. coli MG1655 strain to produce exosomes containing melanin (E.melanin), and investigated its potential neuroprotective effects on DaNs in the context of PD. By employing a combination of cell cultures, biochemical studies, single nuclear RNA sequencing (snRNA seq), and various in vivo validations, we found that administration of E.melanin effectively alleviated DaNs loss and improved motor behavior impairments observed in both pharmacological and transgenic PD mouse models. Mechanistically, snRNA seq data suggested that E.melanin activated the PSAP-GPR37L1 signaling pathway specifically within astrocytes, leading to a reduction in astrocytic engulfment of synapses. Notably, activation of the GPR37L1 receptor using Tx14(A) peptide successfully rescued motor defects as well as protected against DaNs degeneration in mice with PD. Overall, our findings provide novel insights into understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying melanin's protective effects on DaNs in PD while offering potential strategies for manipulating and treating its pathophysiological progression.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common progressive neurodegenerative diseases. An\u00a0important feature of the disease is its long latent period, which necessitates search for prognostic biomarkers. One method of identifying biomarkers of PD is to study changes in gene expression in peripheral blood of the patients in early stages of the disease and have not been treated. In this study, we analyzed relative mRNA levels of the genes ", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder that impacts the substantia niagra region of the midbrain leading to impaired motor as well as non-motor symptoms of the central nervous system (CNS). Mitochondrial dysfunction has been characterized as the primary cause of dopaminergic neuronal loss, however, the molecular mechanisms leading to mitochondrial dysfunction are not completely understood. PARKIN, E3 ubiquitin ligase, plays a crucial role in maintaining mitochondrial quality control, albeit the role of other E3 ligases in regulating mitochondrial functions is not understood. In the current study, we explored the implication of TRIM71, E3 ubiquitin ligase, in the modulation of mitochondrial functions and neuronal death in PD stress conditions induced by rotenone and 6-OHDA. Ectopic expression of TRIM71 in SH-SY5Y dopaminergic neuronal cells sensitizes to PD stress-induced cell death, while its knock-down rescues neuronal cell death. TRIM71 turnover is enhanced in neurons under PD stress conditions. TRIM71 predominantly localizes on the outer mitochondrial membrane and translocation increases during PD stress conditions. TRIM71 regulates mitochondrial complex I and IV assembly and activity. TRIM71 knock-down decreases mitochondrial ROS and enhances ATP level as well as mitochondrial membrane potential in PD stress conditions. TRIM71-mediated mitochondrial ROS and cell death were rescued by mitoTEMPO, a mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant. Altogether, the evidence strongly suggests TRIM71-mediated modulation of mitochondrial functions and neuronal apoptosis in PD stress conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Huntington disease (HD), and Multiple sclerosis (MS), pose a significant global health challenge due to their intricate pathology and limited therapeutic interventions. Natural products represent invaluable reservoirs for combating these neurodegenerative diseases by targeting key pathological hallmarks such as protein aggregation, synaptic dysfunction, aberrant proteostasis, cytoskeletal abnormalities, altered energy homeostasis, inflammation, and neuronal cell death. This review provides an in-depth analysis of the mechanisms and therapeutic targets of natural products for their neuroprotective effects. Furthermore, it elucidates the current progress of clinical trials investigating the potential of natural products in delaying neurodegeneration. The objective of this review is to enhance the comprehension of natural products in the prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, offering new insights and potential avenues for future pharmaceutical research.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major neurodegenerative disorder in Middle-aged and elderly people.There is a pressing need for effective predictive models, particularly in chinese population.\nThis study aims to develop and validate a machine learning-based diagnostic model to identify individuals with PD in community-dwelling populations using data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS).\nWe utilized data from 19,134 individuals aged 45 and above from the CHARLS dataset, with 265 adults reported to have PD. The external validation cohort included 1500 individuals, with 21 (1.4\u00a0%) having PD.The random forest (RF) algorithm was used to develop an interpretable PD prediction model, which was internally validated using 10-fold cross-validation and externally validated with a dataset from Northern Jiangsu People's Hospital. SHapley Additive exPlanation (SHAP) values were employed to elucidate the model's predictions.\nThe RF model demonstrated robust performance with an Area Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.884 and high sensitivity, specificity, and F1 scores. The model's performance in external validation cohort, highlighting an AUC of 0.82 and an accuracy of 0.99. The model's performance remained consistent across internal and external validation cohorts. SHAP analysis provided insights into the importance and interaction of various predictors, enhancing model interpretability.\nThe study presents a highly accurate and interpretable machine learning-based diagnostic model to identify individuals with PD in middle-aged and older Chinese adults. By combined with predictive risk factors and chronic disease information, the model offers valuable insights for early identification and intervention, potentially mitigating PD progression.", 
    "abstract": "In Parkinson's disease (PD), microglial autophagy is crucial for the maintenance of cellular redox homeostasis. Meanwhile, cycloastragenol (CAG), a triterpenoid saponin and the principal active component of Astragalus, reduces the activation of NLRP3 inflammasomes. Nevertheless, the specific molecular mechanisms underlying the CAG-mitigated microglial neuroinflammation remains obscure in PD.\nThis study explored the role of CAG in the activation of microglial NLRP3 inflammasome and the mechanisms underlying its therapeutic potential for PD treatment.\nThe effect of CAG was assessed in \u03b1-Syn-induced primary microglia and PD models.\nAAV1/2-hsyn-SNCA (A53T) was stereo-injected into the striatum of mice to induce PD models and CAG was orally administered. The mice underwent quantitative 4D proteomics analysis and behavioral assessments. The primary microglia and neuron cultures were analyzed by western blotting, immunofluorescence, transmission electron microscopy, etc. RESULTS: CAG reduced phagocytosis-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) by suppressing the microglial Scribble (Scrib) and p22\nCAG mitigates neuroinflammation by inhibiting ROS-induced NLRP3 inflammasome activation in microglia via promoting microglial autophagy and reducing the activity of Scrib-associated nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase, which signifies a promising alternative approach to PD management.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's Disease (PD) stands as a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder. However, current pharmacotherapies for PD face challenges due to inadequate penetration through the blood-brain barrier (BBB), posing limitations on their therapeutic efficacy. Considering the potential of negatively charged carbon dots (CDs) in retaining functional groups from precursor molecules and vertically crossing the BBB, this study focuses on the utilization of fucoidan (FD), a promising pharmaceutical candidate with neuroprotective effects on dopamine-active neurons, for the development of negatively charged CDs through a one-step hydrothermal method, aiming to achieve efficient BBB penetration for PD treatment. The obtained fucoidan-derived carbon dots (FDCDs) exhibit the fundamental characteristics of CDs, such as nanostructure particles with an average diameter of less than 10\u00a0nm and significant photoluminescence ability. They also retain the abundant functional groups of SO", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms. Cognitive decline is crucial in disease progression and affect quality of life; however, their underlying mechanisms in PD remain unclear. We explored the relationship between cognitive impairment and functional connectivity (FC) using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging in 26 patients with sporadic PD, focusing on the changes in FC between on and off states. Cognitive function was assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score. The correlation between MMSE scores and changes in FC values during on and off states was assessed using Pearson's correlation coefficient. The correlation between changes in FC during the on and off periods and cognitive function differed for each cognitive function item. MMSE memory scores were positively correlated with FC between the brainstem and the left cerebral hemisphere. MMSE attention scores were positively correlated with FC between the bilateral thalamus and frontal lobes and negatively correlated with FC between the left cerebral hemispheres. These findings may facilitate our understanding of the neural correlates underlying cognitive impairment in PD and help develop treatment strategies to preserve cognitive function.", 
    "abstract": "Microbiota-gut-brain axis, the bidirectional relationship between the gut microbiota and the brain, has been increasingly appreciated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Fucoidan, a sulphate-rich polysaccharide, has been shown to be neuroprotective by reducing oxidative stress in PD models. However, the role of microbiota-gut-brain axis in the neuroprotective activity of fucoidan has not been revealed. In this study, the therapeutic effects of fucoidan and involvement of microbiota-gut-brain axis in rotenone (ROT)-induced PD were investigated. The results showed that fucoidan gavage attenuated neuroinflammation, dopamine neuronal damage and motor dysfunction in ROT-induced PD mice. In addition, fucoidan treatment ameliorated gut dysfunction, intestinal inflammation and disruption of the intestinal barrier in PD mice. Fucoidan also affected the composition of gut microbiota in PD mice, indicated particularly by decreased abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila and Lactobacillus johnsonii and increased abundance of Lactobacillus murinus. Mechanistic studies showed that fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from the fucoidan-treated mice and probiotic Lactobacillus murinus supplement are as potent as fucoidan treatment in attenuating peripheral and central inflammation and ameliorating dopamine neuronal damage, which might be attributed to the downregulation of LPS/TLR4/NF-\u03baB signaling pathway. Our study suggests that fucoidan might be potential candidates for the treatment of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Although the output of the lateral habenula (LHb) controls the activity of midbrain dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) containing systems, which are implicated in the pathophysiology of anxiety, it is not clear how activation and blockade of LHb D", 
    "abstract": "Activating mutations in Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) are among the most common genetic causes of Parkinson's disease (PD). The mechanistic path from LRRK2 mutations to PD is not established, but several lines of data suggest that LRRK2 modulation of lysosomal function is involved. It has previously been shown that LRRK2 is recruited to lysosomes upon lysosomal damage leading to increased phosphorylation of its RAB GTPase substrates in macrophage-derived RAW 264.7 cells. Here, we find that LRRK2 kinase inhibition reduces cell death induced by the lysosomotropic compound LLOMe in RAW 264.7 cells showing that lysosomal damage and LRRK2 functionally interacts in both directions: lysosomal damage can lead to activation of LRRK2 signaling and LRRK2 inhibition can attenuate LLOMe-induced cell death. The effect is lysosome specific, as only lysosomal stressors and not a variety of other cell death inducers could be modulated by LRRK2 kinase inhibition. We show with timing and Lysotracker experiments that LRRK2 inhibition does not affect the immediate lysosomal permeabilization induced by LLOMe, but rather modulates the subsequent cellular response to lysosomal damage. siRNA-mediated knockdown of LRRK2 and its main substrates, the RAB GTPases, showed that LRRK2 and RAB8A knockdown could attenuate LLOMe-induced cell death, but not other RAB GTPases tested. An RNA sequencing study was done to identify downstream pathways modulated by LLOMe and LRRK2 inhibition. The most striking finding was that almost all cholesterol biosynthesis genes were strongly downregulated by LLOMe and upregulated with LRRK2 inhibition in combination with LLOMe treatment. To explore the functional relevance of the transcriptional changes, we pretreated cells with the NPC1 inhibitor U18666A that can lead to accumulation of lysosomal cholesterol. U18666A-treated cells were less sensitive to LLOMe-induced cell death, but the attenuation of cell death by LRRK2 inhibition was strongly reduced suggesting that LRRK2 inhibition and lysosomal cholesterol reduces cell death by overlapping mechanisms. Thus, our data demonstrates a LRRK2- and RAB8A-mediated attenuation of RAW 264.7 cell death induced by lysosomal damage that is modulated by lysosomal cholesterol.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, share key characteristics, notably cognitive impairment and significant cell death in specific brain regions. Cognition, a complex mental process allowing individuals to perceive time and place, is disrupted in these conditions. This consistent disruption suggests the possibility of a shared underlying mechanism across all neurodegenerative diseases. One potential common factor is the activation of pathways leading to cell death. Despite significant progress in understanding cell death pathways, no definitive treatments have emerged. This has shifted focus towards less-explored mechanisms like ferroptosis, which holds potential due to its involvement in oxidative stress and iron metabolism. Unlike apoptosis or necrosis, ferroptosis offers a novel therapeutic avenue due to its distinct biochemical and genetic underpinnings, making it a promising target in neurodegenerative disease treatment. Ferroptosis is distinguished from other cellular death mechanisms, by distinctive characteristics such as an imbalance of iron hemostasis, peroxidation of lipids in the plasma membrane, and dysregulated glutathione metabolism. In this review, we discuss the potential role of ferroptosis in cognitive impairment. We then summarize the evidence linking ferroptosis biomarkers to cognitive impairment brought on by neurodegeneration while highlighting recent advancements in our understanding of the molecular and genetic mechanisms behind the condition. Finally, we discuss the prospective therapeutic implications of targeting ferroptosis for the treatment of cognitive abnormalities associated with neurodegeneration, including natural and synthetic substances that suppress ferroptosis via a variety of mechanisms. Promising therapeutic candidates, including antioxidants and iron chelators, are being explored to inhibit ferroptosis and mitigate cognitive decline.", 
    "abstract": "Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms are some of the most common non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's. Weight is a nutritional metric and can be affected by dysfunction of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. This study aims to explore the change in trajectory of body mass index (BMI) in individuals with Parkinson's over the course of the disease including the prodromal and post-diagnostic periods.\nThis was a retrospective longitudinal study of data from participants from the PRIME Parkinson UK cross-sectional study. Participants were included if they had had one or more weights and height recorded in the primary care electronic health record.\n287 patients were initially included but only 234 could be included in the analysis of BMI trajectory. Using a piecewise linear mixed model, we determined that there was a 'change point' in BMI trajectory. This occurred on average 3.73 years after diagnosis, when the mean BMI was 26.4\u00a0kg/m\nThere was a modest weight loss trajectory in the pre-diagnostic period consistent with clinically stable weight. However, after several years, post-diagnosis BMI loss became more marked. In clinical practice interventions could be targeted at this time point to optimize and maintain nutritional intake.", 
    "abstract": "In 2017 a novel growth factor administration therapy (termed NTCELL\u00ae) was trialled for safety and efficacy for Parkinson's disease treatment. NTCELL\u00ae administration is the transplantation of encapsulated porcine choroid plexus cells into the putamen. A clinical study demonstrated safety but failed to meet its primary clinical end-point. Here we describe the clinical and neuropathological characteristics of a case who died five years after receiving NTCELL\u00ae treatment. Using histochemical and immunohistochemical labelling, we demonstrate that the NTCELL\u00ae capsules remain in the striatum but are mainly devoid of cellular contents. A similar pattern of astrogliosis and microgliosis surrounds the capsule placement area to those surrounding the needle track for implanting the capsules. This study is important as it is the first exploration of the long-term clinical and anatomical outcomes of the NTCELL\u00ae clinical trial. The results of this study will help inform future studies aimed at regenerating neurons through the implantation of capsules.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to analyze the association between environmental and occupational organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) exposure and Parkinson's disease (PD) risk.\nSystematic review and meta-analysis.\nA comprehensive search of articles before March 18, 2024, was conducted through PubMed, Cochrane, Embase, Medlin and Web of Science databases, and the relevant data were expressed as odds ratios (OR) and 95\u00a0% confidence intervals (CI). Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) was used to evaluate literature quality. STATA (Version 11.0) was used for analysis.\nThis meta-analysis included 17 case-control studies. The results showed that OCPs exposure increased PD risk, including seven blood sample assessment exposure (BOCPs) studies (OR\u00a0=\u00a01.54, 95\u00a0% CI\u00a0=\u00a01.32-1.79) and 10 indirect assessment exposure (IOCPs) studies (OR\u00a0=\u00a01.19, 95\u00a0% CI\u00a0=\u00a01.04-1.35). Location subgroup analysis showed that OCPs was positively associated with PD risk in Asia, while there was no statistical significance in North America and Europe. The IOCPs functional subclasses subgroup results suggested that organochlorine insecticides were significantly associated with PD risk (OR\u00a0=\u00a01.18, 95%CI\u00a0=\u00a01.03-1.37). Study time may be a factor of high heterogeneity in BOCPs. In addition, BOCPs (OR\u00a0=\u00a01.49, 95%CI\u00a0=\u00a01.28-1.74) and IOCPs (OR\u00a0=\u00a01.10, 95%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.95-1.26) showed different results with PD risk.\nStudy suggests that OCPs exposure may be a risk factor for PD, but there may be location and OCPs type differences.", 
    "abstract": "Dysphagia is frequent and detrimental in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) and does not respond to standard treatments. Experimental models suggested that pathological overactivity of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) may hinder oral contributions to swallowing. Here, we hypothesized that the combined stimulation of subthalamic nucleus (STN) and SNr improves measures of dysphagia after eight weeks of active treatment. We enrolled 20 PD patients with dysphagia and deep brain stimulation (DBS). Patients were assessed in 'medication on' and 'STN' stimulation at baseline (V1) and then were randomized 1:1 to 'STN' or 'STN\u2009+\u2009SNr' stimulation. In addition, patients of both groups received swallowing therapy as a standard of care. The primary endpoint was the change in Penetration-Aspiration Scale (PAS) at eight-week follow-up (V2) with respect to the baseline (V1) under the hypothesis, that 'STN\u2009+\u2009SNr' was superior to 'STN'. We obtained further secondary endpoints on oral preparation, transport, pharyngeal phase, penetration, and aspiration. PAS change from V1 to V2 was not significantly different between groups (p\u2009=\u20090.221). When considering all patients for secondary analyses, we found that the entire study cohort showed better PAS scores at V2 compared to V1 irrespective from DBS treatment allocation (p\u2009=\u20090.0156). Both STN and STN\u2009+\u2009SNr treatments were safe. 'STN\u2009+\u2009SNr' stimulation was not superior compared to standard 'STN' stimulation both on PAS and the secondary endpoints. We found that the entire study cohort improved dysphagia after eight weeks, which presumably mirrors the effect of continued swallowing therapy and the increased patient attention on swallowing.", 
    "abstract": "The complex neuronal architecture and the long distance of synapses from the cell body require precisely orchestrated axonal and dendritic transport processes to support key neuronal functions including synaptic signalling, learning and memory formation. Protein phosphorylation is a major regulator of both intracellular transport and synaptic functions. Some kinases and phosphatases such as cyclin dependent kinase-5 (cdk5)/p35, glycogen synthase kinase-3\u03b2 (GSK3\u03b2) and protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) are strongly involved in these processes. A primary pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/frontotemporal dementia, is synaptic degeneration together with disrupted intracellular transport. One attractive possibility is that alterations to key kinases and phosphatases may underlie both synaptic and axonal transport damages. The brain enriched lemur tail kinases (LMTKs, formerly known as lemur tyrosine kinases) are involved in intracellular transport and synaptic functions, and are also centrally placed in cdk5/p35, GSK3\u03b2 and PP1 signalling pathways. Loss of LMTKs is documented in major neurodegenerative diseases and thus can contribute to pathological defects in these disorders. However, whilst function of their signalling partners became clearer in modulating both synaptic signalling and axonal transport progress has only recently been made around LMTKs. In this review, we describe this progress with a special focus on intracellular transport, synaptic functions and neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Tremor in Parkinson's disease (PD) is commonly regarded as less responsive to levodopa than bradykinesia and rigidity, with levodopa-resistant PD tremor considered relatively common.\nThe aim was to assess the levodopa responsiveness of tremor, bradykinesia, and rigidity in a population with advanced PD.\nWe performed a retrospective study of 526 people with PD screened for deep brain stimulation.\nLevodopa's Cohen's d effect sizes were in the same order of magnitude for the 3 cardinal motor symptoms. Proportional improvement in tremor (86.8%) was higher than bradykinesia (45.7%) and rigidity (67.0%) (P\u2009<\u20090.0001). Full resolution was more frequent for tremor (67.9%) than for bradykinesia (0.4%) or rigidity (24.8%) (P\u2009<\u20090.0001). Levodopa-unresponsive tremor, defined as improvement less than 25%, was documented only in 4.0%, as opposed to 19.4% for bradykinesia and 9.8% for rigidity (P\u2009<\u20090.0001).\nIn advanced PD, tremor was more responsive to levodopa than bradykinesia and rigidity, and levodopa-unresponsive tremor was relatively rare.", 
    "abstract": "Action Observation Therapy (AOT) has been proposed to improve gait, balance and mobility in subjects with neurological and musculoskeletal disorders. The current review aimed to investigate AOT effects in subjects with gait, balance and mobility impairments.\nA systematic literature search was performed using PubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE and Scopus databases from inception until May 2023. Randomized controlled trials investigating effects of AOT on gait, balance and mobility in subjects with any type of clinical condition were included. Two reviewers performed data extraction and methodological quality assessment using the revised Cochrane risk of bias tool for randomized trials. The overall effects were reported as mean difference (MD) or standardized mean difference (SMD) with 95% confidence interval (CI).\nThirty-one studies were included. Low evidence supported AOT to enhance walking speed (SMD: 0.40; 95% CI: 0.17, 0.62; I\nAOT improved gait, balance and mobility after stroke, dynamic balance in patients with Parkinson's disease and dynamic balance and mobility in patients with orthopedic conditions. However, evidence certainty was generally low and further high-quality studies are needed.\nPROSPERO International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (n. CRD42021240626).", 
    "abstract": "The local field potential (LFP) signals are a vital signal for studying the mechanisms of deep brain stimulation (DBS) and constructing adaptive DBS containing information related to the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD).\nA Parkinson's disease state identification algorithm based on the feature extraction strategy of transfer learning was proposed.\nThe algorithm uses continuous wavelet transform (CWT) to convert one-dimensional LFP signals into two-dimensional gray-scalogram images and color images respectively, and designs a Bayesian optimized random forest (RF) classifier to replace the three fully connected layers for the classification task in the VGG16 model, to realize automatic identification of the pathological state of PD patients.\nIt was found that consistently superior performance of gray-scalogram images over color images. The proposed algorithm achieved an accuracy of 97.76%, precision of 99.01%, recall of 96.47%, and F1-score of 97.73%, outperforming feature extractors such as VGG19, InceptionV3, ResNet50, and the lightweight network MobileNet.\nThis algorithm has high accuracy and can distinguish the disease states of PD patients without manual feature extraction, effectively assisting the working of doctors.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Levodopa (LD) is the first discovered and the most promising and effective medication for Parkinson's disease (PD). As the first identified natural source of LD, ", 
    "abstract": "The gut microbiota metabolizes flavonoids, amino acids, dietary fiber, and other components of foods to produce a variety of gut microbiota-derived metabolites. Flavonoids are the largest group of polyphenols, and approximately 7000 flavonoids have been identified. A variety of phenolic acids are produced from flavonoids and amino acids through metabolic processes by the gut microbiota. Furthermore, these phenolic acids are easily absorbed. Phenolic acids generally represent phenolic compounds with one carboxylic acid group. Gut microbiota-derived phenolic acids have antiviral effects against several viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2 and influenza. Furthermore, phenolic acids influence the immune system by inhibiting the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1\u03b2 and tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1. In the nervous systems, phenolic acids may have protective effects against neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Moreover, phenolic acids can improve levels of blood glucose, cholesterols, and triglycerides. Phenolic acids also improve cardiovascular functions, such as blood pressure and atherosclerotic lesions. This review focuses on the current knowledge of the effects of phenolic acids produced from food-derived flavonoids and amino acids by the gut microbiota on health and disease.", 
    "abstract": "Clinical differentiation of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) from Parkinson's disease (PD) is challenging due to overlapping phenotypes and late onset of PSP specific symptoms, highlighting the need for easily assessable biomarkers. We used proximity elongation assay (PEA) to analyze 460 proteins in serum samples from 46 PD, 30 PSP patients, and 24 healthy controls. ANCOVA was used to identify the most promising proteins and machine learning (ML) XGBoost and random forest algorithms to assess their classification performance. Promising proteins were also quantified by ELISA. Moreover, correlations between serum biomarkers and biological and clinical features were investigated. We identified five proteins (TFF3, CPB1, OPG, CNTN1, TIMP4) showing different levels between PSP and PD, which achieved good performance (AUC: 0.892) when combined by ML. On the other hand, when the three most significant biomarkers (TFF3, CPB1 and OPG) were analyzed by ELISA, there was no difference between groups. Serum levels of TFF3 positively correlated with age in all subjects' groups, while for OPG and CPB1 such a correlation occurred in PSP patients only. Moreover, CPB1 positively correlated with disease severity in PD, while no correlations were observed in the PSP group. Overall, we identified CPB1 correlating with PD severity, which may support clinical staging of PD. In addition, our results showing discrepancy between PEA and ELISA technology suggest that caution should be used when translating proteomic findings into clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are currently the most widespread neuronal pathologies in the world. Among these, the most widespread are Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia, Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington's disease (HD)-all characterized by a progressive loss of neurons in specific regions of the brain leading to varied clinical symptoms. At the basis of neurodegenerative diseases, an emerging role is played by genetic mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene that cause increased LRRK2 activity with consequent alteration of neuronal autophagy pathways. LRRK2 kinase activity requires GTPase activity which functions independently of kinase activity and is required for neurotoxicity and to potentiate neuronal death. Important in the neurodegeneration process is the upregulation of casein kinase (CK), which causes the alteration of the AMPK pathway by enhancing the phosphorylation of \u03b1-synuclein and huntingtin proteins, known to be involved in PD and HD, and increasing the accumulation of the amyloid-\u03b2 protein (A\u03b2) for AD. Recent research has identified CK of the kinases upstream of LRRK2 as a regulator of the stability of the LRRK2 protein. Based on this evidence, this review aims to understand the direct involvement of individual kinases in NDDs and how their crosstalk may impact the pathogenesis and early onset of neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder. Recent evidence reveals connections between neuroinflammatory processes and intestinal microbiota alterations in the progression of this pathology. This comprehensive review explores the intricate relationships between them, highlighting their combined impact on PD. Neuroinflammation, characterized by immune activation in the central nervous system, is increasingly acknowledged as a critical factor in the development of PD. Concurrently, alterations in the gut microbiota composition have been linked to PD, suggesting a potential modulatory role in disease progression. Thus, bidirectional communication along the gut-brain axis has become pivotal in comprehending the pathogenesis of PD. Furthermore, we explore emerging therapeutic strategies that target these interconnected pathways, providing insights into potential avenues for PD treatment. The elucidation of these intricate relationships establishes a promising foundation for innovative therapeutic strategies aimed at altering disease progression and improving the quality of life for individuals affected by PD.", 
    "abstract": "Among the non-motor symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), cognitive impairment is one of the most common and disabling. It can occur either early or late during the disease, and it is heterogeneous in terms of its clinical manifestations, such as Subjective Cognitive Dysfunction (SCD), Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), and Parkinson's Disease Dementia (PDD). The aim of the present review is to delve deeper into the molecular mechanisms underlying cognitive decline in PD. This is extremely important to delineate the guidelines for the differential diagnosis and prognosis of the dysfunction, to identify the molecular and neuronal mechanisms involved, and to plan therapeutic strategies that can halt cognitive impairment progression. Specifically, the present review will discuss the pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the progression of cognitive impairment in PD, with attention to mitochondria and their contribution to synaptic dysfunction and neuronal deterioration in the brain regions responsible for non-motor manifestations of the disease.", 
    "abstract": "Heterozygous mutations or genetic variants in the ", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Recent studies have highlighted the significant role of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in reflecting pathophysiological PD brain conditions by analyzing the components of CSF. Based on the published literature, we created a single network with altered metabolites in the CSF of patients with PD. We analyzed biological functions related to the transmembrane of mitochondria, respiration of mitochondria, neurodegeneration, and PD using a bioinformatics tool. As the proteome reflects phenotypes, we collected proteome data based on published papers, and the biological function of the single network showed similarities with that of the metabolomic network. Then, we analyzed the single network of integrated metabolome and proteome. In silico predictions based on the single network with integrated metabolomics and proteomics showed that neurodegeneration and PD were predicted to be activated. In contrast, mitochondrial transmembrane activity and respiration were predicted to be suppressed in the CSF of patients with PD. This review underscores the importance of integrated omics analyses in deciphering PD's complex biochemical networks underlying neurodegeneration.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The role of the cerebellum in Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly in tremor-dominant subtypes, is increasingly recognized. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provide anatomical and metabolic insights, suggesting compensatory hyperactivity or degenerative changes in the cerebellum in PD. Volumetric analysis of cerebellar structures in MRI images, combined with metabolic profiles from MRS, offers possibilities for differentiating PD from essential tremor (ET). The cerebellum may be a potential therapeutic target due to its role in neurocircuitry of PD and ET.\nBrain structural data were obtained using MRI, and cerebellar metabolic profiles, focusing on the quantification of N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline, and creatine peaks were obtained using MRS. This study enrolled patients with ET and PD, both with and without tremor, as well as disease controls with cerebellar atrophy (including spinocerebellar ataxia and multiple system atrophy). Volumetric analysis of cerebellar structures was performed. Differences in MRI and MRS parameters were analyzed using one-way analysis of covariance with a significance threshold of p < 0.05.\nFrom November 2018 to March 2023, 111 patients were enrolled, including 29 ET, 29 cerebellar atrophy, 12 PD without tremor, and 41 PD with tremor. No significant differences in cerebellar volume and N-acetylaspartate/creatine and choline/creatine ratios were found between ET and PD with tremor.\nThis preliminary retrospective study suggests similarities in cerebellar structures and metabolic profiles between ET and PD, highlighting the need for advanced imaging techniques to better differentiate between these conditions. Future research should integrate clinical data, such as tremor severity and cognitive assessments, to explore the relationships with cerebellar MRI parameters.", 
    "abstract": "The ability to learn novel motor skills is essential for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) to regain activities of daily living. However, the underlying mechanisms of motor learning in PD remain unclear. To identify motor features that are distinctively manifested in PD during motor learning, we quantified a rich set of variables reflecting various aspects of the learning process in a virtual throwing task. While the performance outcome improved similarly over 3\u00a0days of practice for both PD patients and age-matched controls, further analysis revealed distinct learning processes between the two groups. PD patients initially performed with a slow release velocity and gradually increased it as practice progressed, whereas the control group began with an unnecessarily rapid release velocity, which they later stabilized at a lower value. Performance characteristics related to the timing of ball release and the inter-release interval did not show significant group differences, although they were modulated across practice in both groups. After one week, both groups retained the performance outcomes and underlying kinematics developed over practice. This study underscores the importance of analyzing the multi-faceted learning process to characterize motor skill learning in PD. The findings may provide insights into PD pathophysiology and inform rehabilitation strategies.", 
    "abstract": "The impact of LRRK2 variants on the risk of Parkinson's disease in Egyptians remains unknown. We examined 1210 Egyptians (611 PD patients and 599 controls) from 16 governorates across Egypt for 12 LRRK2 pathogenic variants. The p.Gly2019Ser was the only variant detected, with a prevalence of 4.1% in sporadic cases, 6.5% in familial cases, and 0.68% in controls. Among p.Gly2019Ser carriers, all were heterozygous bar one homozygous patient, and all shared the common haplotype 1. Demographics and UPDRS scores did not differ between carriers and non-carriers, with most patients being males and developed PD in their fifties. Young and Early-onset PD prevalence was 37.5% in carriers and 33% in non-carriers. Familial cases were 16.6% in carriers and 11.5% in non-carriers. This study affirms that like other Mediterranean populations, Egyptians with PD have a higher prevalence of the p.Gly2019Ser variant compared to the global average. LRRK2 inhibitors could be promising therapeutic options for further exploration in this population.", 
    "abstract": "Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a promising noninvasive intervention for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, studies of its motor and cognitive effect have produced mixed results. We conducted a systematic review including 38 studies and meta-analysis of 12 randomized sham-controlled trials with 263 PD patients. No significant differences were found between active and sham tDCS in motor function (UPDRS-III: SMD\u2009=\u2009-0.14, p\u2009=\u20090.74), gait (SMD\u2009=\u20090.10, p\u2009=\u20090.513), attention and working memory (SMD\u2009=\u20090.24, p\u2009=\u20090.13), executive function (SMD\u2009=\u20090.03, p\u2009=\u20090.854), and memory and learning (SMD: -0.07, p\u2009=\u20090.758). The prediction intervals indicated substantial heterogeneity among studies. Meta-regression showed small positive effects in younger PD patients with milder symptoms. These findings are preliminary but suggest tDCS may benefit some PD patients while being neutral or harmful to others.", 
    "abstract": "Slow gait speed and disrupted brain network connectivity are common in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). This study aimed to clarify the relationship between gait speed and clinical characteristics in PD, and explore the underlying brain network mechanisms. Forty-two PD patients and 20 healthy controls (HC) were recruited. Statistical independent component analysis and correlation analysis were employed to investigate underlying neural mechanisms and relationships. PD patients exhibited significantly slower gait speed, which showed a significant negative correlation with postural instability and gait disturbance scores. Network connectivity analysis revealed decreased intranetwork functional connectivity (FC) within visual network (VN) and cerebellum network (CN), but increased internetwork FC between CN and both sensorimotor network (SMN) and frontoparietal network (FPN) in PD patients compared to HC. The slow gait speed PD subgroup demonstrated increased intranetwork FC within SMN and VN, along with decreased FC between VN and both FPN and default mode network. Correlation analyses revealed negative correlation between gait speed and FC of CN and positive correlation to FC of CN-SMN. Our study identified relationships between gait speed and clinical characteristics, and corresponding network connectivity alterations in PD patients, providing insights into the neural mechanisms underlying gait impairments in PD.", 
    "abstract": "To examine how known causal factors (exercise self-efficacy, balance, walking capacity) affect outcomes (moderate intensity physical activity, community access) in people with Parkinson's disease (PD): through a direct pathway, indirectly through potential mediators (non-motor impairments), or through combined direct and mediated paths.\nCausal mediation analyses using baseline and three-month data from pooled treatment groups in a randomized controlled trial.\nData were collected at two university clinical research centers.\nOne hundred thirty-eight people with PD.\nHome and community-based walking and strength exercise program.\nExposures were exercise self-efficacy, walking ability, and balance. Potential mediators included pain, fatigue, mood (anxiety, depression, affect, apathy), stigma, and cognition (executive function and cognitive flexibility). Outcomes were physical activity and community access behaviour at three-month follow-up. Separate models were developed for each causal factor-mediator-outcome combination. To minimise bias, all models were adjusted for known confounders (comorbidities, freezing of gait, severity of motor impairments, and/or age) and baseline values of the outcomes.\nSelf-efficacy of walking duration had a causal relationship with moderate intensity physical activity through direct and combined paths (p<.001). Walking capacity had a causal relationship with community access through direct (p=.03-.04) and combined (p=.02-.03) paths. Balance did not affect community access (p>.05). There were no significant mediation effects through indirect pathways for either outcome.\nThe effect of known causal factors on physical activity and community access was not mediated by non-motor impairments. Walking self-efficacy and walking capacity remain the primary intervention targets for improving physical activity and community access, respectively, in people with PD.", 
    "abstract": "The prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) such as Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD), Essential tremor (ET), and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is increasing alongside the aging population. Recent studies suggest that these disorders can be identified through retinal imaging, allowing for early detection and monitoring via Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) scans. This study is at the forefront of research, pioneering the application of multi-view OCT and 3D information to the neurological diseases domain. Our methodology consists of two main steps. In the first one, we focus on the segmentation of the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and a class layer grouping between the ganglion cell layer and Bruch's membrane (GCL-BM) in both macular and optic disc OCT scans. These are the areas where changes in thickness serve as a potential indicator of NDDs. The second phase is to select patients based on information about the retinal layers. We explore how the integration of both views (macula and optic disc) improves each screening scenario: Healthy Controls (HC) vs. NDD, AD vs. NDD, ET vs. NDD, MS vs. NDD, PD vs. NDD, and a final multi-class approach considering all four NDDs. For the segmentation task, we obtained satisfactory results for both 2D and 3D approaches in macular segmentation, in which 3D performed better due to the inclusion of depth and cross-sectional information. As for the optic disc view, transfer learning did not improve the metrics over training from scratch, but it did provide a faster training. As for screening, 3D computational biomarkers provided better results than 2D ones, and multi-view methods were usually better than the single-view ones. Regarding separability among diseases, MS and PD were the ones that provided better results in their screening approaches, being also the most represented classes. In conclusion, our methodology has been successfully validated with an extensive experimentation of configurations, techniques and OCT views, becoming the first multi-view analysis that merges data from both macula-centered and optic disc-centered perspectives. Besides, it is also the first effort to examine key retinal layers across four major NDDs within the framework of pathological screening.", 
    "abstract": "Age is the greatest risk factor for many neurodegenerative diseases, yet immune system aging, a contributor to neurodegeneration, is understudied. Genetic variation in the ", 
    "abstract": "Emerging evidence suggests that physiological C-terminal truncation of \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1S) plays a critical role in regulating liquid-liquid phase separation and promoting amyloid aggregation, processes implicated in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the molecular mechanisms through which C-terminal truncation influences \u03b1S conformation and modulates its aggregation remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the impact of C-terminal truncation on \u03b1S conformational dynamics by comparing full-length \u03b1S", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Patients with parkinsonism are more likely than age-matched controls to be admitted to hospital. It may be possible to reduce the cost and negative impact by identifying patients at highest risk and intervening to reduce hospital-related costs. Predictive models have been developed in nonparkinsonism populations.\nThe aims were to (1) describe the reasons for admission, (2) describe the rates of hospital admission/emergency department attendance over time, and (3) use routine data to risk stratify unplanned hospital attendance in people with parkinsonism.\nThis retrospective cohort study used Clinical Practice Research Datalink GOLD, a large UK primary care database, linked to hospital admission and emergency department attendance data. The primary diagnoses for nonelective admissions were categorized, and the frequencies were compared between parkinsonism cases and matched controls. Multilevel logistic and negative binomial regression models were used to estimate the risk of any and multiple admissions, respectively, for patients with parkinsonism.\nThere were 9189 patients with parkinsonism and 45,390 controls. The odds of emergency admission more than doubled from 2010 to 2019 (odds ratio [OR] 2.33; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.96, 2.76; P-value for trend <0.001). Pneumonia was the most common reason for admission among cases, followed by urinary tract infection. Increasing age, multimorbidity, parkinsonism duration, deprivation, and care home residence increased the odds of admission. Rural location was associated with reduced OR for admission (OR 0.79; 95% CI 0.70, 0.89).\nOur risk stratification tool may enable empirical targeting of interventions to reduce admission risk for parkinsonism patients.", 
    "abstract": "The age at onset (AAO) of Parkinson's disease (PD) varies widely among individuals and significantly influences disease progression and prognosis. However, few genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have investigated genetic variants determining AAO, particularly in East Asian populations.\nTo identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) affecting AAO of PD in Korean patients.\nWe conducted a GWAS on AAO of PD in 1048 Korean patients using sex-adjusted linear regression models. Additionally, we conducted downstream analyses of our primary GWAS results.\nrs2134545 demonstrated genome-wide significance (\u03b2\u2009=\u2009-2.459; standard error\u2009[SE] =\u20090.851; P\u2009=\u20091.898\u2009\u00d7\u200910\nWe identified a novel SNP associated with the AAO of PD near the ALCAM gene, distinct from previously reported PD risk loci. These findings need further functional validation; however, they suggest unique genetic pathways influencing the AAO of PD and highlight the need for further research in diverse populations. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "Fine motor impairment is common in Parkinson's disease (PD), which reduces patients' quality of life. There are few suitable targeted treatments. We conducted a clinical trial to determine whether Baduanjin Qigong exercise would increase fine motor skills in PD patients.\nSixty PD patients (Hoehn-Yahr stage 1-4) with hand fine motor impairment were randomly assigned to the Baduanjin group and the physical activity group. Baduanjin group practiced Baduanjin exercise five times weekly for 40\u00a0min (warm-up 5\u00a0min, Baduanjin 30\u00a0min, cool-down 5\u00a0min). The usual physical activity groups maintained their habit of usual physical activities. The participants underwent assessments in the \"ON\" medication state at baseline and 4-week follow-up time points. The Purdue Pegboard Test (PPT) was used as the primary outcome to assess manual dexterity. The secondary outcomes included the Movement Disorders Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, part III (MDS-UPDRS III), and the Parkinson's disease questionnaire (PDQ-39).\nThe results of PPT revealed the Baduanjin group showed statistically significant improvement in the \"non-dominant hand\" and \"assembly\" scores compared to the usual physical activity group (P\u00a0<\u00a00.05), but with no significant difference in \"dominant hand\" and \"both hands\" (P\u00a0>\u00a00.05). Additionally, the Baduanjin group showed better performance in the PDQ-39 (P\u00a0<\u00a00.05).\nOur study concludes that a 4-week Baduanjin exercise is effective in improving fine motor function and quality of life in patients with mild and moderate PD. The results suggest a promising intervention to be implemented in community or home settings for managing fine motor impairment in PD.", 
    "abstract": "To explore the effect of a positive psychology intervention based on the PERMA model on depressive mood and the quality of life of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).\nA total of 60 patients with PD with depression hospitalised between February 2022 and February 2023 were selected using a convenience sampling method. They were divided into a study group (30 cases) and control group (30 cases) using the random number table method. The control group was given routine nursing, whereas the observation group was treated using the PERMA model of positive psychological intervention. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Parkinson's Disease Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (PDQ-39), Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA), Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), and Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) scores were collected and compared before and after the intervention, and patient care satisfaction after the intervention was also recorded and compared.\nStatistically significant differences were identified in the UPDRS (t\u00a0=\u00a04.221, \nA positive psychology intervention using the PERMA model can effectively counter the negative psychological states of depression, anxiety, and negative emotion in patients with PD, thereby significantly improving their quality of life, psychological resilience levels, and patient satisfaction.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative condition characterized by slow movement (bradykinesia), tremors, and muscle stiffness. These symptoms occur due to the degeneration of dopamine- producing neurons in the substantia nigra region of the brain, leading to reduced dopamine levels. The development of Parkinson's Disease (PD) involves a combination of genetic and environmental factors. PD is associated with abnormal regulation of the monoamine oxidase (MAO) enzyme. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are an important class of drugs used to treat PD and other neurological disorders. In the early stages of PD, monotherapy with MAO-B inhibitors has been shown to be both safe and effective. These inhibitors are also commonly used as adjuncts in long-term disease management, as they can improve both motor and non-motor symptoms, reduce \"OFF\" periods, and potentially slow disease progression. However, current MAO-B inhibitors come with side effects like dizziness, nausea, vomiting, light-headedness, and fainting. Therefore, accelerating the development of new MAO-B inhibitors with fewer side effects is crucial. This review explores natural compounds that may inhibit monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), focusing on key findings from the past seven years. It highlights the most effective heterocyclic compounds against MAO-B, including thiazolyl hydrazone, pyridoxine-resveratrol, pyridazine, isoxazole, oxadiazole, benzothiazole, benzoxazole, coumarin, caffeine, pyrazoline, piperazine, piperidine, pyrrolidine, and morpholine derivatives. The review covers in vitro, in silico, and in vivo data, along with the structure- activity relationship of these compounds. These findings offer valuable insights for the development of more effective MAO-B inhibitors and advancements in Parkinson's disease research.", 
    "abstract": "Emerging evidence suggests that dysbiosis of the gut microbiota is associated with the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder. The microbiota-gut-brain axis plays a crucial role in the development and progression of PD, and numerous studies have demonstrated the potential therapeutic benefits of modulations in the intestinal microbiota. This review provides insights into the characterization of the gut microbiota in patients with PD and highlights associations with clinical symptoms and underlying mechanisms. The discussion underscores the increased influence of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of PD. While the relationship is not fully elucidated, existing research demonstrates a strong correlation between changes in the composition of gut microbiota and disease development, and further investigation is warranted to explain the specific underlying mechanisms.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) significantly affects millions of people worldwide due to the progressive degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Despite extensive research efforts, effective treatments that can halt or reverse the progression of PD remain elusive. In recent years, nanotechnology has emerged as a promising new avenue for addressing this challenge, with zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO-NPs) standing out for their extensive therapeutic potential. ZnO-NPs have shown remarkable promise in neuroprotection through several key mechanisms. The multifaceted properties of ZnO-NPs suggest that they could play a crucial role in intervening across various fundamental mechanisms implicated in PD. By targeting these mechanisms, ZnO-NPs offer new insights and potential strategies for managing and treating PD. This review aims to provide a thorough examination of the molecular mechanisms through which ZnO-NPs exert their neuroprotective effects. It highlights their potential as innovative therapeutic agents for PD and outlines directions for future research to explore and harness their full capabilities.", 
    "abstract": "The study investigated the sensitivity of a novel MRI-based OEF mapping, quantitative susceptibility mapping plus quantitative blood oxygen level-dependent imaging (QSM+qBOLD or QQ), to physiological changes, particularly increased oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) by using hyperventilation as a vasoconstrictive stimulus. While QQ's sensitivity to decreased OEF during hypercapnia has been demonstrated, its sensitivity to increased OEF levels, crucial for cerebrovascular disorders like vascular dementia and Parkinson's disease, remains unexplored. In comparison with a previous QSM-based OEF, we evaluated QQ's sensitivity to high OEF values. MRI data were obtained from 11 healthy subjects during resting state (RS) and hyperventilation state (HV) using a 3\u2009T MRI with a three-dimensional multi-echo gradient echo sequence (mGRE) and arterial spin labeling (ASL). Region of interest (ROI) analysis and paired t-tests were used to compare OEF, CMRO", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Parkinson's Disease (PD) are common complications of diabetes, arising from insulin resistance, inflammation, and other pathological processes in the central nervous system. The potential of numerous antidiabetic agents to modify neurodegenerative disease progression, both preclinically and clinically, has been assessed. These agents may provide additional therapeutic benefits beyond glycemic control. Introduced in the twenty-first century, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) are a class of antidiabetic drugs noted not only for their potent glucose-lowering effects but also for their cardiovascular and renal protective benefits. Various GLP-1RAs have been demonstrated to have significant benefits in in vitro and in vivo models of neurodegenerative diseases through modulating a variety of pathogenic mechanisms, including neuroinflammation, autophagy, mitochondrial dysfunction, and the abnormal phosphorylation of pathognomonic proteins. These agents also have substantial protective effects on cognitive and behavioral functions, such as motor function. However, clinical trials investigating GLP-1RAs in diseases such as AD, PD, mild cognitive impairment, psychiatric disorders, and diabetes have yielded mixed results for cognitive and motor function. This review examines the link between diabetes and neurodegenerative diseases, explores the effects of antidiabetic agents on neurodegeneration, provides a concise overview of the GLP-1 pathway, and discusses both preclinical and clinical trial outcomes of GLP-1RAs for neurodegenerative diseases, including their effects on cognition in AD and PD. This review also proposed new strategies for the design of future clinical trials on GLP-1 RAs for both AD and PD.", 
    "abstract": "When short plasma half-life drugs act only briefly, they require frequent or continuous administration. We report the engineering of a non-invasive oral drug delivery system for long-term, continuous administration of these drugs. Their non-invasive, long-term, continuous administration at daily doses exceeding 100 mg has, for many years, been considered an insurmountable challenge. We show that over 1200 mg/day of 4:1 levodopa-carbidopa (LD-CD) can be non-invasively and continuously extruded when formulated as a semisolid paste, loaded with 63%w/w of the solid drugs. The drug delivery system comprises a reusable orthodontic retainer with a co-molded pocket into which the patient inserts after each meal a new 1 mL propellant-driven, prefilled, disposable, drug delivery extruder. The paste is delivered to the lingual side of the teeth where it is mixed with saliva and swallowed. As reported elsewhere, a 15-day, 16 patient open label clinical trial of the drug delivery system continuously extruding LD-CD paste significantly reduces the variability of the plasma LD concentration and alleviates symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) as compared to LD-CD tablets.", 
    "abstract": "Increasing efforts have been made to elucidate how genetic and environmental factors interact in Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we assessed the development of symptoms on a genetic PD rat model that overexpresses human \u03b1-synuclein (Snca", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases. It is usually accompanied by motor and non-motor symptoms that seriously threaten the health and the quality of life. Novel medications are urgently needed because current pharmaceuticals can relieve symptoms but cannot stop disease progression. The microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) is closely associated with the occurrence and development of PD and is an effective therapeutic target. Tetrahedral framework nucleic acids (tFNAs) can modulate the microbiome and immune regulation. However, such nucleic acid nanostructures are very sensitive to acids which hinder this promising approach. Therefore, we prepared exosome-like nanovesicles (Exo@tac) from ginger that are acid resistant and equipped with tFNAs modified by antimicrobial peptides (AMP). We verified that Exo@tac regulates intestinal bacteria associated with the microbial-gut-brain axis in vitro and significantly improves PD symptoms in vivo when administered orally. Microbiota profiling confirmed that Exo@tac normalizes the intestinal flora composition of mouse models of PD. Our findings present a novel strategy for the development of PD drugs and the innovative delivery of nucleic acid nanomedicines.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common disorder that has, as part of its core pathology, the loss of the nigral dopaminergic nerve cells that project to the striatum. Replacing this loss with dopaminergic drugs has been the mainstay of therapy in PD for more than 50 years and while offering significant clinical benefit, especially in early-stage disease, leads to side effects over time. A conceptually more effective way to treat this aspect of the PD pathology would be to replace the missing dopaminergic system with grafts of new dopamine cells. This approach has been investigated for nearly 40 years using a variety of different dopamine cell sources. To date, a proof-of-principle has been shown using human fetal dopamine cells in patients with PD, but the more widespread adoption of this approach has been hampered by logistical reasons around tissue supply, the ethics of the cell source, and, most importantly, by the inconsistent results shown across trials, which in some cases have reported worrying side effects. Reasons for all this have been discussed extensively in the literature and one solution may lie in the development of new human stem cell-derived dopamine cells, which are now just entering first in human clinical trials.", 
    "abstract": "Recent advancements in single-cell technologies, including single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (scATAC-seq), have greatly improved our insight into the epigenomic landscapes across various biological contexts and diseases. This paper reviews key computational tools and machine learning approaches that integrate scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq data to facilitate the alignment of transcriptomic data with chromatin accessibility profiles. Applying these integrated single-cell technologies in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, reveals how changes in chromatin accessibility and gene expression can illuminate pathogenic mechanisms and identify potential therapeutic targets. Despite facing challenges like data sparsity and computational demands, ongoing enhancements in scATAC-seq and scRNA-seq technologies, along with better analytical methods, continue to expand their applications. These advancements promise to revolutionize our approach to medical research and clinical diagnostics, offering a comprehensive view of cellular function and disease pathology.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and the presence of Lewy bodies (LB), intraneuronal inclusions mainly composed of \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-Syn) fibrils. Compelling evidence supports that, in PD brains, synapses are the sites where neurodegeneration initiates several years before the manifestation of motor symptoms. Furthermore, the amount of \u03b1-Syn deposited at synaptic terminals is several orders greater than that constituting LB. This hints that pathological synaptic \u03b1-Syn aggregates may be the main trigger for the retrograde synapse-to-cell body degeneration pattern characterizing early prodromal phases of PD. Identifying reliable biomarkers of synaptopathy is therefore crucial for early diagnosis. Here, we studied the alterations of key dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic striatal synaptic markers during the initial phases of axonal and cell body degeneration in mice subjected to 3 or 10 administrations of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine + probenecid (MPTPp), a model for early prodromal PD. We found that MPTPp administration resulted in progressive deposition of \u03b1-Syn, advancing from synaptic terminals to axons and dopaminergic neuron cell bodies. This was accompanied by marked co-accumulation of Synapsin III (Syn III), a synaptic protein previously identified as a component of \u03b1-Syn fibrils in post-mortem PD brains and as a main stabilizer of \u03b1-Syn aggregates, as well as very early and severe reduction of vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2), dopamine transporter (DAT) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in nigrostriatal neurons. Results also showed that striatal \u03b1-Syn accumulation and VMAT2 decrease, unlike other markers, did not recover following washout from 10 MPTPp administrations, supporting that these changes were precocious and severe. Finally, we found that early changes in striatal \u03b1-Syn, Syn III, VMAT2 and DAT observed following 3 MPTPp administrations, correlated with nigrostriatal neuron loss after 10 MPTPp administrations. These findings indicate that \u03b1-Syn/Syn III co-deposition characterizes very early stages of striatal dopaminergic dysfunction in the MPTPp model and highlight that VMAT2 and Syn III could be two reliable molecular imaging biomarkers to predict dopamine neuron denervation and estimate \u03b1-Syn-related synaptopathy in prodromal and early symptomatic phases of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain substantia nigra, resulting in motor and non-motor symptoms. While the exact etiology of PD remains elusive, a growing body of evidence suggests that dysfunction in the parkin protein plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of the disease. Parkin is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that ubiquitinates substrate proteins to control a number of crucial cellular processes including protein catabolism, immune response, and cellular apoptosis.While autosomal recessive mutations in the PARK2 gene, which codes for parkin, are linked to an inherited form of early-onset PD, heterozygous mutations in PARK2 have also been reported in the more commonly occurring sporadic PD cases. Impairment of parkin's E3 ligase activity is believed to play a pathogenic role in both familial and sporadic forms of PD.This article provides an overview of the current understanding of the mechanistic basis of parkin's E3 ligase activity, its major physiological role in controlling cellular functions, and how these are disrupted in familial and sporadic PD. The second half of the manuscript explores the currently available and potential therapeutic strategies targeting parkin structure and/or function in order to slow down or mitigate the progressive neurodegeneration in PD.", 
    "abstract": "Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)-R1628P mutation has been shown to be one of the common risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD) in Asian populations, but the mechanism by which R1628P mutations cause neuronal dysfunction remains unknown. We used LRRK2", 
    "abstract": "Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) dysfunctions have been associated to life-spam, and aging-related diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, and the neuroinflammatory associated processes. Mitochondrial dysfunctions play a major role in aging-related diseases, including dopaminergic neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation. However, the mechanisms of RAS/mitochondria interactions remain to be clarified. In the present work, we studied the role of major RAS components in the mitochondrial dynamics in dopaminergic neurons and microglia using in vitro and in vivo models. In dopaminergic neurons, we observed that activation of the RAS pro-oxidative/pro-inflammatory axis (Angiotensin II/Angiotensin type-1 receptor, AT1/NADPH oxidase complex) produces a dysregulation of mitochondrial dynamics towards mitochondrial fission, via Drp1 phosphorylation at Ser616 and translocation to mitochondria. However, activation of the RAS antioxidative/anti-inflammatory axis, using Angiotensin 1-7, counteracts this effect. RAS components also modulated the microglial inflammatory response through mitochondrial dynamic changes. After interferon-\u03b3-induced activation of human microglial cells, we observed increased mitochondrial fission and superoxide production that was inhibited by Angiotensin 1-7 treatment. Angiotensin 1-7 also inhibited mitochondrial metabolic changes induced by pro-inflammatory microglial activation. The role of RAS in mitochondrial dynamic changes was confirmed in vivo using the LPS-induced inflammation model in wild-type, AT1-KO, and AT2-KO mice. The effect of Angiotensin 1-7 is mediated by IL-10, specifically by decreasing the post-transcriptional phosphorylated Drp1 form, and translocation of STAT3 to mitochondria. Angiotensin 1-7, acting on mitochondrial Angiotensin 1-7 receptors (Mas/Mas related receptors), increased the phosphorylated form of STAT3 at Ser727, which is mediated by mitochondrial PKA activation. In conclusion, the present findings show the role of RAS components in modulation of mitochondrial dynamics and mitochondrial function, revealing the associated signaling pathways. The results lead to better understanding of the effects of RAS dysfunction in aging-related diseases, and particularly dopaminergic degeneration and neuroinflammation in Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Vertical ground reaction force (vGRF) is a main kinetic gait analysis explaining body weight loading patterns. The study primarily aimed to understand effects of Freezing of gait (FoG) on vGRF in Parkinson's disease (PD). A secondary analysis for a walking dataset including biomechanical analyses for 26 PD participants (13 with FoG) was performed. Considering the normal pattern of vGRF curve, peaks during early stance (F1) and late stance (F3), and slope in- during mid-stance (F2) were used to represent the change in kinetic forces. vGRF parameters were compared between FoG and non-FoG participants, and at off- and on-medication. FoG participants showed higher vGRFs during mid-stance F2 magnitude (p\u00a0=\u00a00.003), and weaker vertical propulsion; F3 magnitude (p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). This coincided with delayed weight acceptance; F1 timing (p\u00a0=\u00a00.019), and midstance peaks; F2 timing (p\u00a0=\u00a00.004). At off-medications, the F2 magnitude was significantly higher (p\u00a0=\u00a00.006), F3 magnitude lower (p\u00a0=\u00a00.001), and F1 time slower (p\u00a0=\u00a00.034) in FoG. At on-medication, F3 magnitude was still significantly lower (p\u00a0=\u00a00.017), and F2 time was slower (p\u00a0=\u00a00.037) in FoG. This study reveals that FoG significantly affects vGRF, particularly F3 magnitude during the push-off phase. Analyzing vGRF is crucial for understanding and managing FoG, allowing for more targeted interventions to improve FoG outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "Exposure to PFAS such as GenX (HFPO dimer acid) has become increasingly common due to the replacement of older generation PFAS in manufacturing processes. While neurodegenerative and developmental effects of legacy PFAS exposure have been studied in depth, there is a limited understanding specific to the effects of GenX exposure. To investigate the effects of GenX exposure, we exposed ", 
    "abstract": "The CACHE challenges are a series of prospective benchmarking exercises to evaluate progress in the field of computational hit-finding. Here we report the results of the inaugural CACHE challenge in which 23 computational teams each selected up to 100 commercially available compounds that they predicted would bind to the WDR domain of the Parkinson's disease target LRRK2, a domain with no known ligand and only an apo structure in the PDB. The lack of known binding data and presumably low druggability of the target is a challenge to computational hit finding methods. Of the 1955 molecules predicted by participants in Round 1 of the challenge, 73 were found to bind to LRRK2 in an SPR assay with a K", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common, and the fastest-growing neurodegenerative disorder with unclear etiology in most cases. Therefore, the identification of non-genetic risk factors for PD pathology is crucial to develop effective preventative or therapeutic strategies. An increasing number of evidence suggests that central insulin resistance might have an essential role in PD pathology. Nevertheless, it is not clear whether insulin resistance arises from external factors/lifestyle, comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes or it can occur in a PD patient's brain independently from peripheral insulin resistance.\nWe aimed to investigate insulin resistance and its role in GBA1\u00a0mutation-associated PD pathogenesis and phenotype severity.\nMidbrain organoids, generated from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) of PD patients carrying the GBA1-N370S heterozygous mutation (GBA-PD) and healthy donors, were exposed to different insulin concentrations to modify insulin signaling function. Transcriptomics analysis was performed to explore insulin signaling gene expression patterns in GBA-PD and to find a potential target for GBA-PD-associated phenotype rescue.\nThe insulin signaling pathway genes show dysregulation in GBA-PD. Particularly, we highlight that a knockdown of FOXO1 mitigates the loss of dopaminergic neurons and cellular death in GBA-PD. Additionally, our findings suggest a promising therapeutic potential of the anti-diabetic drug Pioglitazone in decreasing dopaminergic neuron loss associated with GBA-PD.\nLocal insulin signaling dysfunction plays a substantial role in GBA-PD pathogenesis, exacerbating dopaminergic neuron death. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "Idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a strong known predictor of a final clinicopathological diagnosis of a Lewy type \u03b1-synucleinopathy (LTS). Olfactory dysfunction is an early symptom of synucleinopathies and has been repeatedly associated with the presence of post-mortem LTS.\nTo assess the combined value of a clinician diagnosis of probable RBD (PRBD) and hyposmia in predicting the post-mortem presence of LTS in a broader, less-selected, volunteer elderly population.\nWe studied 652 autopsied subjects from the Arizona Study of Aging and Neurodegenerative Disorders, which were evaluated for PRBD, had completed annual movement and cognitive assessments, and had at least one the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) olfactory test.\nHistological evidence of LTS was significantly more frequent in those who had PRBD (112/152: 73.7%) than those without (177/494: 35.8%) (P\u2009<\u20090.001). LTS was more frequent in cases with PRBD and a low UPSIT score (90.8%) compared to cases with PRBD only (73.7%) (P\u2009<\u20090.001) or cases with a low UPSIT score only (69.4%) (P\u2009<\u20090.001). Sensitivity of PRBD diagnosis for predicting LTS was 38.8% and specificity 88.8%, whereas sensitivity of a low UPSIT score was 74.4% and specificity 73.4% (Youden's index\u2009=\u20090.276 for PRBD, 0.478 for UPSIT). When combining both measures, sensitivity was 34.3% and specificity increased to 97.2%.\nPRBD, diagnosed without sleep study confirmation, combined with a reduced olfactory performance is highly specific for predicting post-mortem presence of LTS. The combination of both measures may provide a cost-effective means of predicting LTS in a broader community.", 
    "abstract": "Motor signs may herald incident dementia and allow the earlier detection of high-risk individuals and the timely implementation of preventive interventions. The current study was performed to investigate the prognostic properties of motor signs with respect to incident dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) in older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Emphasis was placed on sex differences. The specificity of these associations was explored.\nWe analyzed data from the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center Uniform Data Set. Participants 55\u2009+\u2009years old with a diagnosis of MCI were included in the analysis. Those with Parkinson's disease (PD) or other parkinsonian disorders at baseline and those with PD dementia at follow-up were excluded. UPDRS III was used to assess the presence or absence of motor signs in nine domains: hypophonia; masked facies; resting tremor; action/postural tremor; rigidity; bradykinesia; impaired chair rise; impaired posture/gait; postural instability. \u0391djusted Cox proportional hazards models featuring sex by motor sign interactions were estimated.\nThroughout the average follow-up of 3.7\u2009\u00b1\u20093.1\u2009years, among 4623 individuals with MCI, 2211 progressed to dementia (66 of whom converted to DLB). Masked facies [HR\u2009=\u20094.21 (1.74-10.18)], resting tremor [HR\u2009=\u20094.71 (1.44-15.40)], and bradykinesia [HR\u2009=\u20093.43 (1.82-6.45)] exclusively increased the risk of DLB. The HR of DLB was approximately 15 times greater in women compared to men with masked facies. Impaired posture-gait (approximately 10 times) and resting tremor (approximately 8.5 times) exhibited a similar trend (prominent risk-conferring properties in women compared to men) but failed to achieve statistical significance. Rigidity and hypophonia elevated the risk of other dementia entities, as well. The remaining motor features were not related to incident dementia of any type.\nSpecific motor signs may herald DLB among individuals with MCI. Different associations may exist between masked facies, impaired posture-gait, resting tremor, and incident DLB in men versus women.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD) is a complex and heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder with a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations, determined by a complex interplay of environmental and genetic factors. This study aimed to investigate genetic variants associated with PD and assess their impact on the disease phenotype through genotype-phenotype correlations.\nWe employed a targeted resequencing panel to analyze 27 genes linked to PD in a cohort of 1185 PD patients from southern Spain. Variants were categorized based on the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics pathogenicity criteria. Demographic and clinical data were also collected.\nAmong the patients analyzed, 13.5% carried potential disease-causing pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in 12 different genes, indicating significant genetic heterogeneity. The most frequently affected genes were LRRK2, PRKN, and GBA1 (accounting for 72.1% of positive cases). Sex-specific differences were observed, with a higher proportion of female patients carrying LRRK2 variants. Differences in age at onset and clinical features were also observed among the different mutated genes. Notably, variants in genes associated with atypical parkinsonism presented distinct clinical presentations, highlighting the importance of genetic factors in the differential diagnosis.\nOur study provides valuable information on the genetic landscape of PD and its clinical manifestations. The observed genotype-phenotype correlations, along with sex-specific differences, emphasize the complexity of PD pathogenesis, underlining the importance of personalized approaches to PD diagnosis and treatment. Further investigations into genetic interactions and population-specific effects are warranted to enhance our understanding of PD etiology and improve patient care.", 
    "abstract": "Respiratory dysfunction is an important contributor to morbidity and mortality in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD), but it is unclear what parameters are sensitive to diagnose and monitor respiratory dysfunction across disease phases.\nWe aimed to characterize respiratory dysfunction in mild to moderate PD.\nIn 20 individuals without cardiopulmonary comorbidity, pulmonary and inspiratory muscle function testing were performed ON-medication. Subsequently, the acute ventilatory response to hypoxia (HVR) was assessed by gradually decreasing F\nAt rest, individuals with greatest PD severity had a lower tidal volume (pairwise comparisons: 0.59 vs. 0.74, P\u2009=\u20090.038-0.050) and tended to have a higher breathing frequency (17.7 vs. 14.4, P\u2009=\u20090.076), despite normal pulmonary function. A 45-min exposure to hypoxia induced a significantly lower acute HVR in individuals with PD compared to controls (-0.0489 vs. 0.133\u2009L.min/%, P\u2009=\u20090.0038). Acute HVR was reduced regardless of disease severity. Subacute HVR in individuals with milder disease tended to be higher compared to those with more advanced disease (P\u2009=\u20090.079).\nRespiratory dysfunction is present in individuals with PD, including those with relatively mild disease severity, and is characterized by altered breathing patterns at rest, as well as a lower HVR, despite normal pulmonary and inspiratory muscle function testing.", 
    "abstract": "Falls among older people present a significant public health concern. Community nurses, with their expertise, ability to leverage the therapeutic relationship and intimate access to their patients' lives and daily routines, have the capacity to effect real change in this domain. Francesca Ramadan explores the contributing factors underlying falls and shares the practical steps a community nurse can take to manage the risk of future falls and preserve their patients' independence and wellbeing.", 
    "abstract": "This document provides a comprehensive examination of the pivotal function of the ", 
    "abstract": "Increasing evidence suggests that environmental factors play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Humans are simultaneously exposed to multiple brominated flame retardants (BFRs) in the environment. However, the relationship between BFRs and PD remains unclear. This study was designed to investigate the overall association between BFRs and PD in a nationally representative US population and to further identify significant chemicals.\nThis study used data from 7,161 NHANES participants from 2009 through 2016. The serum BFRs registry included PBDE-28, PBDE-47, PBDE-85, PBDE-99, PBDE-100, PBDE-153, PBDE-154, PBDE-183, PBDE-209, and PBB-153. A survey-weighted generalized logistic regression model with restricted cubic splines (RCS) was used to evaluate the association between single BFRs exposure and periodontitis. Meanwhile, weighted quantile sum (WQS) regression and Bayesian kernel machine regression (BKMR) were used to evaluate the overall association of mixed frankincense powder with periodontitis and to identify significant chemicals. Sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the robustness of the results.\nAmong the 7,161 participants, 65 had PD. PD patients were older (mean age 57.79 vs. 46.57\u2009years) and had a higher proportion of females (70.86%) compared to non-PD participants. Serum levels of PBB-153 were significantly higher in those with PD. Logistic regression analyses revealed a non-linear, inverted U-shaped relationship between serum PBB-153 and PD risk. The risk of PD increased with higher PBB-153 levels up to the 3rd quartile (Q3), beyond which the risk declined (Q3 vs. Q1: OR\u2009=\u20094.98, 95% CI\u2009=\u20091.79-13.86; Q4 vs. Q1: OR\u2009=\u20093.23, 95% CI\u2009=\u20091.03-10.08). PBB-153 (43.40%), PBDE-153 (24.75%), and PBDE-85 (19.51%) contributed most to the weighted quantile sum index associated with PD risk. Bayesian kernel machine regression confirmed the inverted U-shaped dose-response pattern for PBB-153 and the overall BFR mixture. Restricted cubic spline analyses corroborated the non-linear relationship between PBB-153 and PD, which was more pronounced among women and those aged 37-58\u2009years. Sensitivity analyses substantiated these findings.\nThis nationally representative cross-sectional study revealed a novel non-linear, inverted U-shaped relationship between serum levels of the brominated flame retardant PBB-153 and Parkinson's disease risk in U.S. adults. The risk increased with higher PBB-153 exposure up to a point, beyond which it declined. This complex dose-response pattern highlights the importance of considering potential hormetic mechanisms and effect modifiers when evaluating environmental exposures and neurodegenerative diseases. Further research is warranted to elucidate the underlying biological pathways and inform risk mitigation strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common progressive neurodegenerative disease. The management of PD including Pisa syndrome (PS), a postural deformity in PD characterized by reversible lateral bending of the trunk on the side, is often challenging. Recently, acupuncture has been a recognized intervention for treating motor or non-motor symptoms in PD management. However, very few of these studies or cases have been reported from Japan. A 58-year-old man with a four-year history of PD (Hoehn and Yahr Scale: Stage 2) presented to the acupuncture department of our hospital with dysphasia, bradykinesia, forward posture, and newly appeared right-side bending of the trunk after he increased the dose of rotigotine delivered via skin patches six months earlier. There was no change in the right-sided bending of the trunk two months after the withdrawal of the dopaminergic agents. A traditional Japanese acupuncture and moxibustion treatment, ", 
    "abstract": "Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is a gastrointestinal condition characterized by abnormal colonization of bacteria in the small intestine, leading to overgrowth and alteration, which is linked to gastrointestinal issues, potentially affecting neurological and mental health. Despite existing research, we still do not understand how SIBO affects tryptophan metabolism and psychiatric diseases. We investigated the literature for connections between SIBO, tryptophan metabolism disruptions, and psychiatric disorders like autism, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's diseases. We also explored the interaction between thyroid disorders and their influence on SIBO and psychiatric illnesses. PubMed and Google Scholar databases were searched using keywords and phrases, individual and in combinations, like \"SIBO,\" \"gut microbiota,\" \"neurologic disorders,\" \"mental disorders,\" \"tryptophan,\" \"dopamine,\" and \"thyroid disease.\" We focused on original research and review papers that presented empirical studies conducted on animal models and human subjects published in English between February 1992 to February 2023. The initial 2 634 534 records were preliminary screened based on title and abstract and then subjected to full-text review to exclude publications with insufficient data on SIBO, lack of a psychiatric disorder component, or methodological limitations compromising the integrity of the findings. The analysis highlights the significance of the association between psychiatric disorders and SIBO, emphasizing the role of gut-microbial diversity in mental health. We advocate for more detailed studies, including longitudinal research, to clarify the causal relationships between SIBO, gut dysbiosis, and psychiatric disorders and for an integrated approach while treating complex psychiatric conditions.", 
    "abstract": ". The present study aimed at deriving regression-based reliable change indices (RCIs) for the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) in an Italian cohort of non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients.\nN\u2009=\u200933 consecutive, non-demented PD patients were followed-up at a 5-to-8-month interval (M\u2009=\u20096.6; SD\u2009=\u20090.6) with the MoCA. Practice effects and test-retest reliability were assessed via dependent-sample t-tests and intra-class correlation (ICC) coefficients, respectively. RCIs were derived separately for raw and demographically adjusted MoCA scores according to a standardized regression-based approach by accounting for both baseline confounders (i.e., demographics, disease duration and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores) and retest interval.\nNo practice effects were found (t(32)\u2009=\u20090.29; p\u2009=\u2009.778), with acceptable test-retest reliability being detected (ICC\u2009=\u20090.67). MoCA scores at T0 proved to be the only significant predictor of T1 MoCA performances within both the model addressing raw scores and that addressing adjusted scores (ps\u2009<\u20090.001).\nThe present study provides Italian practitioners and researchers with regression-based RCIs for the MoCA in non-demented PD patients, which can be reliably adopted for retest interval\u2009\u2265\u20095 and \u2264\u20098 months without encountering any practice effect.", 
    "abstract": "Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) poses a serious global health threat, with its progression mechanisms not yet fully understood. While several molecular markers for NAFLD have been developed in recent years, a lack of robust evidence hampers their clinical application. Therefore, identifying novel and potent biomarkers would directly aid in the prediction, prevention, and personalized treatment of NAFLD. We downloaded NAFLD-related datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Differential expression analysis and functional analysis were initially conducted. Subsequently, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) and multiple machine learning strategies were employed to screen and identify key genes, and the diagnostic value was assessed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. We then explored the relationship between genes and immune cells using transcriptome data and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. Finally, we validated our findings in cell and mouse NAFLD models. We obtained 23 overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) across three NAFLD datasets. Enrichment analysis revealed that DEGs were associated with Apoptosis, Parathyroid hormone synthesis, secretion and action, Colorectal cancer, p53 signaling pathway, and Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids. After employing machine learning strategies, we identified one gene, pleckstrin homology like domain family A member 1 (PHLDA1), downregulated in NAFLD and showing high diagnostic accuracy. CIBERSORT analysis revealed significant associations of PHLDA1 with various immune cells. Single-cell data analysis demonstrated downregulation of PHLDA1 in NAFLD, with PHLDA1 exhibiting a significant negative correlation with macrophages. Furthermore, we found PHLDA1 to be downregulated in an in vitro hepatic steatosis cell model, and overexpression of PHLDA1 significantly reduced lipid accumulation, as well as the expression of key molecules involved in hepatic lipogenesis and fatty acid uptake, such as FASN, SCD-1, and CD36. Additionally, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) pathway enrichment analysis suggested that PHLDA1 may influence NAFLD progression through pathways such as Cytokine Cytokine Receptor Interaction, Ecm Receptor Interaction, Parkinson's Disease, and Ribosome pathways. Our conclusions were further validated in a mouse model of NAFLD. Our study reveals that PHLDA1 inhibits the progression of NAFLD, as overexpression of PHLDA1 significantly reduces lipid accumulation in cells and markedly decreases the expression of key molecules involved in liver lipogenesis and fatty acid uptake. Therefore, PHLDA1 may emerge as a novel potential target for future prediction, diagnosis, and targeted prevention of NAFLD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD) is the fastest\u00a0growing neurological disorder globally and poses substantial management challenges owing to progressive disability, emergence of levodopa-resistant symptoms, and treatment-related complications. In this Review, we examine the current state of research into PD therapies and outline future priorities for advancing our understanding and treatment of the disease. We identify two main research priorities for the coming years: first, slowing the progression of the disease through the integration of sensitive biomarkers and targeted biological therapies, and second, enhancing existing symptomatic treatments, encompassing surgical and infusion therapies, with the goal of postponing complications and improving long-term patient management. The path towards disease modification is impeded by the multifaceted pathophysiology and diverse mechanisms underlying PD. Ongoing studies are directed at \u03b1-synuclein aggregation, complemented by efforts to address specific pathways associated with the less common genetic forms of the disease. The success of these efforts relies on establishing robust end points, incorporating technology, and identifying reliable biomarkers for early diagnosis and continuous monitoring of disease progression. In the context of symptomatic treatment, the focus should shift towards refining existing approaches and fostering the development of novel therapeutic strategies that target levodopa-resistant symptoms and clinical manifestations that substantially impair quality of life.", 
    "abstract": "Sleep difficulties affect up to 98% of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and are often not well treated. How globus pallidus internus (GPi)-DBS could help is less understood. We retrospectively analyzed sleep outcomes in 32 PD patients after GPi-DBS with a two-year follow-up. We observed high heterogeneity in sleep response to pallidal stimulation: 16 patients showed clinically meaningful improvement, 9 had minor changes, and 7 experienced worsened sleep quality, with no overall significant change on the Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale-2 (P\u2009=\u20090.19). Further analysis revealed that stimulation of the left sensorimotor GPi was significantly associated with sleep improvement. Fiber tracts from the left sensorimotor GPi to the bilateral sensorimotor cortex, right GPi, brainstem, and bilateral cerebellum were linked to better sleep, while projections to the left hippocampus correlated with worsened sleep. These findings may guide personalized GPi-DBS lead placement to optimize sleep outcomes in PD.", 
    "abstract": "The causal relationships between amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson disease and different intensities of physical activity (PA) are still inconclusive. To evaluate the causal impact of PA on ALS and Parkinson disease (PD), this study integrates evidence from Mendelian randomization (MR) using a meta-analysis approach.\nMR analyses on genetically predicted levels of PA (compose of self-reported moderate-to-vigorous physical activity [MVPA], self-reported vigorous physical activity [VPA], and strenuous sports or other exercises [SSOE]) regarding ALS and PD published up to July 27, 2024, were obtained from PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and Embase. De novo MR studies were analyzed utilizing publicly accessible datasets from genome-wide association studies and then meta-analyses were performed to pool the results.\nMeta-analyses of results of 12 de novo MR studies analyses and 2 published MR studies indicated that genetic predicted levels of MVPA (odds ratio [OR]: 1.22, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.08-1.38), VPA (OR: 1.32, 95% CI: 1.08-1.60), and SSOE (OR: 1.35, 95% CI: 1.07-1.70) were related to a raised risk of ALS, but not causally with PD.\nOur findings showed no causal relationships between MVPA, VPA, SSOE, and PD, while MVPA, VPA, and SSOE were associated with increased ALS risk, highlighting the need for targeted PA recommendations for disease management.", 
    "abstract": "Over two decades ago, increased levels of RNA oxidation were reported in postmortem patients with ALS, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and other neurodegenerative diseases. Interestingly, not all cell types and transcripts were equally oxidized. Furthermore, it was shown that RNA oxidation is an early phenomenon, altogether indicating that oxidative RNA damage could be a driver, and not a consequence, of disease. Despite all these exciting observations, the field appears to have stagnated since then. We argue that this is a consequence of the shortcomings of technologies to model these diseases, limiting our understanding of which transcripts are being oxidized, which RNA-binding proteins are interacting with these RNAs, what their implications are in RNA processing, and as a result, what their potential role is in disease onset and progression. Here, we discuss the limits of previous technologies and propose ways by which advancements in iPSC-derived disease modeling, proteomics, and sequencing technologies can be combined and leveraged to answer new and decades-old questions.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurological disorder that primarily affects movement and is often accompanied by depressive symptoms. Subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) has emerged as a therapeutic intervention for PD, although its impact on depressive symptoms remains complex. This study investigates the relationship between PD, DBS, and depressive symptoms, focusing on how DBS influences cognitive function and mood among PD patients in Brazil. The study involved two cohorts: one in 2019 with 46 participants and another in 2022 with 31 patients. Distinct assessment instruments, including the Geriatric Depression Scale-15 and Beck Depression Inventory-II, were employed to evaluate depressive symptoms. The results revealed no significant correlation between participants' gender and the presence of DBS, but substantial differences were observed in age, disease duration, and Activities of Daily Living scores. Patients undergoing DBS showed notably poorer cognitive performance compared to those treated solely with medication. Furthermore, the use of DBS was associated with higher scores on depressive symptoms scales within one of the cohorts. These findings underscore the intricate interplay among PD, DBS treatment, and depressive symptoms, highlighting the necessity for tailored approaches to patient care.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is characterized by motor deficits emerging from insufficient dopamine in the striatum after degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and their long-projecting axons comprising the nigrostriatal pathway. To address this, a tissue-engineered nigrostriatal pathway (TE-NSP) featuring a tubular hydrogel with a collagen/laminin core that encases aggregated dopaminergic neurons and their axonal tracts is developed. This engineered microtissue can be implanted to replace neurons and axons with fidelity to the lost pathway and thus may provide dopamine according to feedback from host circuitry. While TE-NSPs have traditionally been fabricated with agarose, here a hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogel is utilized to have a more bioactive encasement while expanding control over physical and biochemical properties. Using rat ventral midbrain neurons, it is found that TE-NSPs exhibited improved neurite growth with HA relative to agarose, with no differences in electrically-evoked dopamine release. When transplanted, HA hydrogels reduced average host neuron loss and inflammation around the implant compared to agarose, and TE-NSP neurons and axonal tracts survived for at least 2 weeks to structurally emulate the lost pathway. This study represents an innovative use of HA hydrogels for neuroregenerative medicine and enables future studies expanding the control and functionality of TE-NSPs.", 
    "abstract": "In Parkinson's disease (PD), a large number of individuals are confronted with pain. This issue has been receiving increasing attention in literature in recent years, as the complexity of pain in this disease makes its evaluation and treatment challenging. However, psychological variables related to the pain experience have received limited attention, especially when it comes to the exploration of beliefs regarding pain which, to our knowledge, remains unexplored in PD. Pain beliefs are defined as a subset of a patient's belief system which represents a personal understanding of the pain experience. Four dimensions of pain beliefs have been isolated in literature: mystery, pain permanence, pain constancy and self-blame. Thus, the goal of this study was first to describe pain beliefs in individuals with PD and second, to explore the relationships between pain beliefs and clinical and psychological variables. One hundred and sixty-nine international individuals with PD completed an online survey with socio-demographic and medical data. Participants completed self-report instruments to assess their pain (King's Parkinson's Disease Pain Questionnaire, McGill Pain Questionnaire and Brief Pain Inventory), psychological distress (Beck Depression Inventory, short-form and Parkinson Anxiety Scale), pain catastrophizing (Pain Catastrophizing Scale) and pain beliefs catastrophizing (Pain Beliefs and Perception Inventory). The study's findings revealed that most participants' beliefs are marked by the dimension of ", 
    "abstract": "Correction for 'Nanorod-associated plasmonic circular dichroism monitors the handedness and composition of \u03b1-synuclein fibrils from Parkinson's disease models and post-mortem brain' by Francesca Longhena ", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Neurological disorders (NDs) encompass a range of debilitating conditions that affect the nervous system, including prevalent illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and ischemic stroke. Despite significant ongoing studies, effective therapeutic strategies to halt or slow down the progression of these illnesses are still lacking. Stilbenes, a class of natural polyphenols, have shown potential as candidates for therapeutic strategies due to their capacity to protect the nervous system. Preclinical studies have provided strong evidence that stilbenes can regulate many cellular pathways implicated in neurodegeneration, with resveratrol being a well-studied compound that has shown the ability to reduce oxidative damage, promote neurogenesis, and enhance mitochondrial function - crucial for maintaining brain health. In preclinical animal models, initial research has also shown promise in additional substances such as piceatannol and pterostilbene. Furthermore, clinical studies have explored the therapeutic benefits of stilbenes in NDs. Despite promising results in preclinical research, the use of stilbenes in clinical trials is currently limited, with most studies focusing on resveratrol. Although several clinical studies have demonstrated the beneficial impact of resveratrol supplementation on brain health and degenerative consequences, other investigations have yielded ambiguous findings, underscoring the urgent need for more comprehensive and precisely planned clinical research. This study delves into the potential benefits of stilbenes as neuroprotective agents for NDs. It emphasizes the need for more clinical research to enhance our understanding of their therapeutic effectiveness in specific patient groups.", 
    "abstract": "Plasma biomarker assays provide an opportunity to reassess whether Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) plasma biomarkers are diagnostically useful.\nWe hypothesized that immunomagnetic reduction (IMR) of plasma biomarkers could differentiate between patients with PDD and DLB and healthy patients when combined with established clinical testing measures.\nPlasma samples from 61 participants (12 PDD, 12 DLB, 37 controls) were analyzed using IMR to quantify amyloid-\u03b2 42 (A\u03b2\nParticipants with PDD had higher \u03b1-syn than those with DLB and healthy participants and were distinguishable by their biomarker products A\u03b2\nIn this pilot study, IMR plasma p-tau181 and \u03b1-syn may discriminate between PDD and DLB when used in conjunction with clinical testing.", 
    "abstract": "Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) is an effective, yet underused therapy for people living with Parkinson's disease (PD) in whom tremor, motor fluctuations and/or dyskinesia are not satisfactorily controlled by oral medical therapy. Fear of vascular complications related to the operative procedure remains a strong reason for both the referrer and patient reluctance. We review the incidence of vascular complications in the first 600 patients with Parkinson's disease treated at our centre by a single neurologist/neurosurgical team.\nSurgical data routinely collected for patients who underwent DBS implantation for the management of PD between the years 2001-2023 was retrospectively reviewed. Incidences of vascular complication were analysed in detail, examining causal factors.\nIncluding reimplantations, 600 consecutive DBS patients underwent implantation with 1222 DBS electrodes. Three patients (0.50%) experienced vascular complications.\nThis vascular complication rate is at the low end of that reported in the literature. Risk mitigation strategies discussed include a consistent neurosurgical team, dual methodology target and trajectory planning, control of cerebrospinal fluid egress during the procedure, use of a specialised microelectrode recording (MER)/macrostimulation electrode without an introducing brain cannula and low number of MER passes. A reduced vascular complication rate may improve the acceptability of DBS therapy for both patients and referrers.", 
    "abstract": "One of the key challenges in Big Data for clinical research and healthcare is how to integrate new sources of data, whose relation to disease processes are often not well understood, with multiple classical clinical measurements that have been used by clinicians for years to describe disease processes and interpret therapeutic outcomes. Without such integration, even the most promising data from emerging technologies may have limited, if any, clinical utility. This paper presents an approach to address this challenge, illustrated through an example in Parkinson's Disease (PD) management. We show how data from various sensing sources can be integrated with traditional clinical measurements used in PD; furthermore, we show how leveraging Big Data frameworks, augmented by Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithms, can distinctively enrich the data resources available to clinicians. We showcase the potential of this approach in a cohort of 50 PD patients who underwent both evaluations with an Integrated Motion Analysis Suite (IMAS) composed of a battery of multimodal, portable, and wearable sensors and traditional Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-III evaluations. Through techniques including Principal Component Analysis (PCA), elastic net regression, and clustering analysis we demonstrate how this combined approach can be used to improve clinical motor assessments and to develop personalized treatments. The scalability of our approach enables systematic data generation and analysis on increasingly larger datasets, confirming the integration potential of IMAS, whose use in PD assessments is validated herein, within Big Data paradigms. Compared to existing approaches, our solution offers a more comprehensive, multi-dimensional view of patient data, enabling deeper clinical insights and greater potential for personalized treatment strategies. Additionally, we show how IMAS can be integrated into established clinical practices, facilitating its adoption in routine care\u00a0and complementing emerging methods, for instance,\u00a0non-invasive brain stimulation. Future work will aim to augment our data repositories with additional clinical data, such as imaging and biospecimen data, to further broaden and enhance these foundational methodologies, leveraging the full potential of Big Data and AI.", 
    "abstract": "Background Understanding the specific cognitive domains associated with activities of daily living (ADLs) impairment in Lewy body dementia (LBD) may help identify which targeted therapeutic interventions to pursue in future research. This study aimed to investigate the neuropsychological determinants of impairment in ADLs in LBD patients. Methods We conducted a cross-sectional study of LBD patients referred for a clinical neuropsychological evaluation within the Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Center at Virginia Commonwealth University. The presence or absence of impairment in eight ADLs and neuropsychological test performances were collected and analyzed. Cluster analysis and hierarchical analysis were used to define ADL impairment into mild, moderate, and severe ADL impairment groups. We then compared cognitive performance between the ADL groups. Results This study included 193 LBD patients. Compared to LBD patients with mild and moderate ADL impairment, those with severe ADL impairment had worse scores in global cognition as measured by the Dementia Rating Scale-2 (DRS-2) (p=0.002), speeded visuospatial processing as measured by the Trail Making Test A (p=0.001), speeded executive functioning as measured by the Trail Making Test B (p=0.006), and psychomotor processing speed (p<0.001). Impairments in driving and self-care were associated with worse performances on Trail Making Test A, Trail Making Test B, and psychomotor processing speed (all p<0.05). Conclusions In patients with LBD, impaired speeded tasks of visual processing and executive functioning are associated with impaired ADLs, particularly driving and self-care. In order to improve ADLs in LBD, future studies should focus on identifying therapies that improve processing speed performance.", 
    "abstract": "This systematic review aims to examine the conceptualization and measurement of participation among people with Parkinson's disease (PD) and the factors, such as facilitators and barriers, linked to participation in this population.\nPubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, SCOPUS, Web of Science, APA PsycInfo, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, and Clinicaltrials.gov from inception to July 2022.\nStudies were screened using primary inclusion criteria of peer-reviewed articles that measure participation in adults with PD.\nThe reviewers independently assessed quality using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool and extracted data regarding sample characteristics, study design, country, properties of assessments, and factors examined in relation to participation.\nOut of 64,427 records, we included 36 articles. Among them, less than half explicitly defined participation, and those articles used four different participation-related terms. Eighteen different assessments have been used to measure participation, and 56% of them were originally developed to measure constructs other than participation. Among aspects of participation assessed by the evaluation tools, participation problem was the most frequently measured, followed by participation accomplishment and satisfaction with participation. Many impairment-level factors, including disease severity, depression, and cognition, were found to be associated with participation.\nParticipation is a central concept and important outcome in the field of rehabilitation. This systematic review provides a summary and synthesis of the existing quantitative studies on participation among people with PD. It identified inconsistencies in the conceptualization and measurement of participation across studies. Additionally, the aspect of satisfaction with participation and the association of environmental (or social) factors with participation have received relatively little attention. Future research should investigate satisfaction with participation, examine the impact of environmental factors on participation, and include longitudinal studies to better understand participation in individuals with PD.", 
    "abstract": "Impaired mitochondrial function is crucial to the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases. It causes the release of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), ATP, and cardiolipin, which activate the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome. NLRP3 inflammasome is an important innate immune system element contributing to neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Therefore, targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome has become an interesting therapeutic approach for treating neurodegenerative diseases. This review describes the role of mitochondrial abnormalities and over-activated inflammasomes in the progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), Multiple sclerosis (MS), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Friedrich ataxia (FRDA). We also discuss the therapeutic strategies focusing on signaling pathways associated with inflammasome activation, which potentially alleviate neurodegenerative symptoms and impede disease progression.", 
    "abstract": "Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) and \u03b1-synuclein share enigmatic roles in the pathobiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). LRRK2 mutations are a common genetic cause of PD which, in addition to neurodegeneration, often present with abnormal deposits of \u03b1-synuclein in the form of Lewy-related pathology. As Lewy-related pathology is a prominent neuropathologic finding in sporadic PD, the relationship between LRRK2 and \u03b1-synuclein has garnered considerable interest. However, whether and how LRRK2 might influence the accumulation of Lewy-related pathology remains poorly understood. Through stereotactic injection of mouse \u03b1-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (PFF), we modeled the spread of Lewy-related pathology within forebrain regions where LRRK2 is most highly expressed. The impact of LRRK2 genotype on the formation of \u03b1-synuclein inclusions was evaluated at 1-month post-injection. Neither deletion of LRRK2 nor G2019S LRRK2 knockin appreciably altered the burden of \u03b1-synuclein pathology at this early timepoint. These observations fail to provide support for a robust pathophysiologic interaction between LRRK2 and \u03b1-synuclein in the forebrain in vivo. There was, however, a modest reduction in microglial activation induced by PFF delivery in the hippocampus of LRRK2 knockout mice, suggesting that LRRK2 may contribute to \u03b1-synuclein-induced neuroinflammation. Collectively, our data indicate that the pathological accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein in the mouse forebrain is largely independent of LRRK2.", 
    "abstract": "A series of new 6-amidocoumarin derivatives, 3a-j, was synthesized and evaluated for their inhibitory activity against monoamine oxidase (MAO) and cholinesterase. All compounds, except 3\u00a0g, showed higher inhibitory activity towards MAO-B than MAO-A. Compound 3i most potently inhibited MAO-B with an IC", 
    "abstract": "Recent studies pointed out the modulation of imidazoline I", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease sleep scale (PDSS) was recommended by the Movement Disorder Society task force for screening and grading the severity of sleep problems in Parkinson's disease (PD). This work aimed to examine the validity and reliability of an Arabic version of PDSS-2.\nThis cross-sectional study was carried out on 133 patients fulfilling diagnostic criteria for PD. The patients were clinically assessed using the following scales: Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS), modified Hoehn and Yahr Scale (H&Y), non-motor symptoms scale (NMSS), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). PDSS-2 scale was translated according to approved translation standards into Arabic and back-translated into English. Patients were asked to respond based on their experience in the last week.\nThe mean PDSS2 score for the included PD patients was 17\u00b110. Cronbach's \u03b1 coefficient value was 0.89, indicating good internal consistency. Most items showed high item-total correlation; the lowest was 0.375, considered higher than the conventional cut-off of 0.3. Test-retest reliability showed good agreement (ICC: 0.848). The exploratory factor analysis showed that items had been loaded over four factors. Total PDSS-2 score was positively correlated to age, disease duration, modified H&Y scale, MDS-UPDRS, NMSS, BDI, and global PSQI score. A cut-off point of 13 could differentiate poor sleepers from good sleepers with 91% sensitivity and 70% specificity (AUC 0.893, P<0.001).\nThe Arabic version of PDSS-2 has appropriate validity and can be reliably used for assessing sleep-related problems in Arabic-speaking patients with PD.", 
    "abstract": "We describe an elderly woman meeting criteria for vascular parkinsonism/dementia associated with a likely pathogenic variant in the COL22A1 gene, supported by functional experiments in a zebrafish model. We suggest that white matter hyperintensities may not represent small-vessel ischemic disease and that, if confirmed by further observations, COL22A1 may be included among the adult-onset leukoencephalopathies mislabeled as \"vascular parkinsonism.\"", 
    "abstract": "Sleep disruptions associated with neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) damage the brain's sleep-regulating regions. Advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques can characterize the signature of each neurodegenerative pathology. We performed an evaluation of sleep-related regions in NDDs using MRI to localize the central nervous system (CNS). In the initial search, 61 related papers were discovered using predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Finally, 30 articles were included in this study. The study included patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), multiple sclerosis (MS), rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD), idiopathic RBD (iRBD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Sleep-related regions recognized by CNS localization in NDDs can be linked to important regions. MRI also revealed cortical thinning, GM atrophy, WM, and tract loss, changes in diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) biomarkers (fractional anisotropy (FA), axial diffusivity (Da), and radial diffusivity (Dr)), a decrease in DMN connectivity, a reduction in functional connectivity (FC), and amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) alterations. Sleep plays an important role in predicting future risks for the development of NDDs. Other neuroimaging, cognitive-behavioral, and clinical research can use the information found in this research about the brain regions, MRI biomarker changes, and their relationships.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder triggered by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Recent studies have demonstrated that necroptosis is involved in dopaminergic neuronal cell death and the resulting neuroinflammation. During the process of necroptosis, a necrosome complex is formed consisting of the proteins receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1), RIPK3, and mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL). Although the neuroprotective effects of the RIPK1-specific inhibitor necrostatin-1, as well as RIPK3 and MLKL knockout in mice, have been described, the effects of RIPK3 pharmacological inhibitors have not yet been reported in animal models of PD. In the present study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of GSK872, a specific RIPK3 inhibitor, in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mouse model of PD. GSK872 rescued MPTP-induced motor impairment and inhibited tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic cell death in the SN and striatum. Additionally, GSK872 inhibited the MPTP-induced increase in the expression of p-RIPK3 and p-MLKL in both the dopaminergic neurons and microglia, as assessed by biochemical and histological analyses. GSK872 further inhibited microglial activation and the expression of inflammatory mediators including NLRP3, interleukin (IL)-1\u03b2, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and inducible nitric oxide synthase in the SN region of MPTP mice. Using in vitro experiments, we validated the effects of GSK872 on necroptosis in SH-SY5Y neuronal and BV2 microglial cells. Overall, our results suggest that GSK872 exerts neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects, and may thus have therapeutic potential for PD.", 
    "abstract": "Appetite dysregulation in Parkinson's Disease (PD) appears to be linked to physical and cognitive deterioration. PD patients with and without cognitive impairment (CI) were compared to an age-matched control group to explore predictors of appetite control in fasting and post-prandial conditions.\nFifty-five patients were recruited and divided into three groups: twenty controls (age: 74\u00a0y, BMI: 25.8\u00a0kg/m\nPD patients with CI had a significant lower protein intake (7.4\u00a0\u00b1\u00a02.5\u00a0g, p\u00a0=\u00a00.01) compared to controls (21.9\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03.1\u00a0g) and PD patients without CI (14.3\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03.0\u00a0g). Post-prandial plasma GLP-1 concentrations were associated with decreased hunger perception (B\u00b1SE,\u00a0-5.3\u00a0\u00b1\u00a02.4\u00a0\u00a0mm\u00b7h\nPYY and GLP-1 appeared to influence appetite control in PD patients and their roles merit further investigation.", 
    "abstract": "Cannabidiol (CBD), a cannabinoid that does not create psychoactive activities, has been identified as having a multitude of therapeutic benefits. This study delves into the chemical properties, pharmacokinetics, safety and toxicity, pharmacological effects, and most importantly, the association between the therapeutic potential of CBD and the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway. The relationship between Nrf2 and CBD is closely linked to certain proteins that are associated with cardiovascular dysfunctions, cancers, and neurodegenerative conditions. Specifically, Nrf2 is connected to the initiation and progression of diverse health issues, including nephrotoxicity, bladder-related diseases, oral mucositis, cancers, obesity, myocardial injury and angiogenesis, skin-related inflammations, psychotic disorders, neuropathic pain, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, neuroinflammation, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, and Multiple Sclerosis. The association between CBD and Nrf2 is a zone of great interest in the medical field, as it has the potential to significantly impact the treatment and prevention of wide-ranging health conditions. Additional investigation is necessary to entirely apprehend the mechanisms underlying this crucial interplay and to develop effective therapeutic interventions.", 
    "abstract": "TMEM106B, a lysosomal transmembrane protein, has been reported to be associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the precise physiopathologic mechanism of TMEM106B in PD remains unclear.\nThis study aimed to explore the influence of TMEM106B on the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) in PD.\n55 patients with PD and 40 healthy controls were enrolled. RT-qPCR and ELISA were employed to assess the levels of TMEM106B. In vitro and in vivo models of PD, Lentivirus-shTMEM106B and AAV-shTMEM106B were used to knockdown the expression of TMEM106B. Behavioral experiments, western blot, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry were used to detect the effect of TMEM106B on the ALP process.\nWe found that the levels of TMEM106B were increased in the PD patients and PD models. TMEM106B knockdown markedly improved the motor deficits and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned mice. TMEM106B knockdown promoted \u03b1-syn clearance by regulating the ALP process in MPP\nTaken together, our study suggests that TMEM106B knockdown mediates the ALP pathway, leading to a decrease in \u03b1-syn, providing a new direction and perspective for the regulation of autophagy in PD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder primarily characterized by motor impairments. However, non-motor symptoms are increasingly recognized and studied. Among these, sexual dysfunctions are common yet remain underexplored. This systematic literature review aims to examine the nature of sexual dysfunctions and their impact on sexual quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease. We have demonstrated that sexual dysfunctions are prevalent among individuals with Parkinson's disease and are multifactorial. Men often experience a high prevalence of erectile dysfunction and ejaculation issues, while women may encounter difficulties related to sexual desire and orgasm. Hypersexuality, although rarer, is primarily observed in men and is often associated with dopaminergic treatments.", 
    "abstract": "Vestibular rehabilitation (VR) is a therapeutic approach that minimizes the impacts of balance alterations by enhancing the central vestibular compensation mechanism. The present study investigates the effect of repeated balance exercises on the central vestibular compensation mechanism in a reserpine-induced progressive model of parkinsonism in aged rats. Male Wistar rats were assigned to three cohort experiments: Exp 1: repeated balance exercises (narrow beam test) - performed every 48 h during 20 days; Exp 2: balance exercises performed on the 0", 
    "abstract": "Pain is the most common non-motor manifestation of Parkinson's disease (PD), affecting the quality of life for patients. Nav1.6 is the most abundant subtype of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) in the brain of adult mammals. Here we investigated the expression patterns of Nav1.6 in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus and its involvement in the development of hyperalgesia in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats. The results showed a significant increase in Nav1.6 expression in reactive astrocytes of the ipsilateral VPL in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats at 4\u202fweeks post-injection. Moreover, 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibited mechanical hyperalgesia, but did not display thermal hyperalgesia in the ipsilateral paw at the same time point. The down-regulation of Nav1.6 in the ipsilateral VPL can reduce mechanical hyperalgesia and improve sensorimotor impairments in 6-OHDA- lesioned rats. Furthermore, the analysis of local field potentials (LFPs) revealed that the increased Nav1.6 may participate in abnormal synchronized oscillations within the thalamocortical loop in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. These findings suggest that the altered expression of Nav1.6 in astrocytes of the VPL may play an important role in the abnormal processing of pain within the thalamocortical circuit, contributing to the formation of mechanical hyperalgesia in animal models of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD), a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by degeneration of the substantia nigra and a marked increase in Lewy bodies in the brain, primarily manifests as motor dysfunction. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3\u03b2) is known to play a critical role in various pathological processes of neurodegenerative diseases. However, the impact of GSK-3\u03b2 inhibitors on PD progression and the underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for the effects have not been fully elucidated. Using in vitro and mouse models of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) are a type of common chronic progressive disorders characterized by progressive damage to specific cell populations in the nervous system, ultimately leading to disability or death. Effective treatments for these diseases are still lacking, due to a limited understanding of their pathogeneses, which involve multiple cellular and molecular pathways. The triggering of an immune response is a common feature in neurodegenerative disorders. A critical challenge is the intricate interplay between neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, and immune responses, which are not yet fully characterized. In recent years, the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon gene (STING) pathway, a crucial immune response for intracellular DNA sensing, has gradually gained attention. However, the specific roles of this pathway within cellular types such as immune cells, glial and neuronal cells, and its contribution to ND pathogenesis, remain not fully elucidated. In this review, we systematically explore how the cGAS-STING signaling links various cell types with related cellular effector pathways under the context of NDs for multifaceted therapeutic directions. We emphasize the discovery of condition-dependent cellular heterogeneity in the cGAS-STING pathway, which is integral for understanding the diverse cellular responses and potential therapeutic targets. Additionally, we review the pathogenic role of cGAS-STING activation in Parkinson's disease, ataxia-telangiectasia, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We focus on the complex bidirectional roles of the cGAS-STING pathway in Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and multiple sclerosis, revealing their double-edged nature in disease progression. The objective of this review is to elucidate the pivotal role of the cGAS-STING pathway in ND pathogenesis and catalyze new insights for facilitating the development of novel therapeutic strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons, abnormal accumulation of \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn), and microglial activation. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) regulates multiple functions of microglia in the brain, and several studies have shown that TREM2 variant R47H is a risk factor for PD. However, the regulation of microglia by TREM2 in PD remains poorly understood.\nWe constructed PD cell and animal models using \u03b1-syn preformed fibrils. siRNA knockdown and lentiviral overexpression were used to perturb TREM2 levels in cells, and TREM2 knockout mice and lentiviral overexpression was used in animal models to investigate the effects of TREM2 on microglial function, \u03b1-syn-related pathology, and dopaminergic neuron degeneration.\nMicroglia phagocytosed \u03b1-syn preformed fibrils in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, with some capacity to degrade \u03b1-syn aggregates. TREM2 expression increased in PD. In the context of PD, TREM2 knockout mice exhibited worsened pathological \u03b1-syn spread, decreased microglial reactivity, and increased loss of TH-positive neurons in the substantia nigra compared to wild-type mice. TREM2 overexpression enhanced reactive microglial aggregation towards the pathological site. Cellular experiments revealed that reduced TREM2 impaired microglial phagocytosis and proliferation, but enhanced autophagy via the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway.\nTREM2 signaling in PD maintains microglial phagocytosis, proliferation, and reactivity, stabilizing autophagy and proliferation via the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Regulating TREM2 levels may be beneficial in PD treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Identifying Parkinson's disease (PD) patients at risk of cognitive decline is crucial for enhancing clinical interventions. While several models predicting cognitive decline in PD exist, a new machine learning framework called disease progression models (DPMs) offers a data-driven approach to understand disease evolution.\nWe enrolled 423 PD patients and 196 healthy controls from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI). Our study encompassed a range of biomarkers, including motor, neurocognitive, and neuroimaging evaluations at baseline and annually. A methodology was employed to select optimal combinations of biomarkers for constructing DPMs with superior predictive capabilities for both diagnosing and estimating conversion times toward cognitive decline.\nAt baseline, the approach showed excellent performance in identifying individuals at high risk of cognitive decline within the first five years. Furthermore, the proposed timeline from cognitive impairment to dementia was also used to explore clinical events such as the onset of cognitive impairment, the development of dementia or amyloid pathology. The presence of amyloid pathology did not alter the progression of cognitive impairment among PD patients.\nNeuropsychological measures and certain biomarkers, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid beta 42 (A\u03b2", 
    "abstract": "It has been shown recently, without an explanation of the possible molecular mechanisms involved, that 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazinepropanesulphonic (EPPS) acid effectively protects from the neurotoxicity induced by oligomers and plaques formed by the protein amyloid-\u03b2 protein. Here we report the same protective effect, obtained in vitro (HT22-diff cell line) and ex vivo (hippocampal slices) models, against amyloid neurotoxicity induced by oligomers of salmon Calcitonin (sCT), which has been shown to be a good model for the study of neurodegenerative diseases. Based on biophysical studies focusing on the protein aggregation kinetic and the interaction of the aggregates with model membranes, we propose a possible molecular mechanism underlying the protective effects. Taken together, our results indicate that EPPS is able to counteract the direct association (primary aggregation) of harmless low-molecular weight aggregates (dimers and trimers) or their aggregation catalysed by surfaces present in the solution (secondary aggregation). Thus, EPPS stabilizes harmless aggregates and hinders the formation of toxic and metastable prefibrillar oligomers. Overall, our data demonstrate that EPPS is an excellent drug candidate for the treatment of neurodegeneration due to misfolded proteins, such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) has been recently defined as a clinical entity with subjects presenting with Parkinson's disease (PD) between the ages of 21-50 and replaces the term Young Onset PD (YOPD). Presentations in this age group are somewhat different to the typical Late Onset sporadic PD (LOPD) and genetic basis may play an important role. The presentations are however, to be differentiated from other causes of juvenile onset or early onset parkinsonism, which are often driven by rare genetic, brain metal deposition, or metabolic progressive disorders with a levolevodopa unresponsive or poorly responsive phenotype. Specific genetic mutations can also underpin EOPD and include nonmotor symptoms of EOPD, which have not been studied extensively. However, some real-life comparator studies with LOPD suggest a nonmotor profile in EOPD dominated by neuropsychiatric symptoms (anxiety), pain, sexual dysfunction, and a higher risk of impulse control disorders and segregation to the recently described noradrenergic and Park-sleep nonmotor endophenotypes may occur. Awareness of the phenotypic variants and nonmotor expression will pave the way for future precision and personalised medicine.", 
    "abstract": "Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are neurodegenerative disorders that significantly impact well-being. Hyperoside (HYP), a flavonoid found in various plant species, particularly within the genus Hypericin, exhibits diverse pharmacological properties. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the anti-AD and anti-PD effects of HYP remain unclear. This systematic review consolidated existing preclinical research on HYP by conducting a comprehensive literature survey and analysis. The objective was to corroborate the therapeutic efficacy of HYP in AD and PD models and to synthesize its potential therapeutic mechanisms. Searches were conducted in the PubMed, CNKI, and Web of Science databases. Reliability assessment of the 17 included studies confirmed the credibility of the mechanisms of action of HYP against AD and PD. We systematically assessed the neuroprotective potential of HYP in in vivo and in vitro models of AD and PD. Our findings indicated that HYP can mitigate, intervene in, and treat AD and PD animal models and associated cells through various mechanisms, including anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, anti-A\u03b2 aggregation, and cholinesterase inhibitory activities. Therefore, HYP potentially exerts anti-AD and anti-PD effects through diverse mechanisms, making it a promising candidate for therapeutic intervention in both AD and PD.", 
    "abstract": "Protein homeostasis (proteostasis) refers to the plethora of mechanisms that safeguard the proper folding of the newly synthesized proteins. It entails various intricately regulated cues that demolish the toxic protein species to prevent their aggregation. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is recognized as a salient protein degradation system, with a substantial role in maintaining proteostasis. However, under certain circumstances the protein degradation capacity of the UPS is overwhelmed, leading to the accumulation of misfolded proteins. Several neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are characterized with the presence of protein aggregates and proteinopathy. Accordingly, enhancing the 26S proteasome degradation activity might delineate a pioneering approach in targeting various proteotoxic disorders. Regrettably, the exact molecular approaches that enhance the proteasomal activity are still not fully understood. Therefore, this review aimed to underscore several signaling cascades that might restore the degradation capacity of this molecular machine. In this review, we discuss the different molecular components of the UPS and how 26S proteasomes are deleteriously affected in many neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, we summarize different signaling pathways that can be utilized to renovate the 26S proteasome functional capacity, alongside currently known druggable targets in this circuit and various classes of proteasome activators.", 
    "abstract": "There is a molecular coupling between neurodegenerative diseases, including glaucomatous neurodegeneration (GN), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease (PD). Many cells in the eye and the brain have the right amount of 14-3-3 proteins (14-3-3\u202fs) and their isoforms, such as \u03b2, \u03b5, \u03b3, \u03b7, \u03b8, \u03c0, and \u03b3. These cells include keratocytes, endothelial cells, corneal epithelial cells, and primary conjunctival epithelial cells. 14-3-3\u202fs regulate autophagy and mitophagy, help break down built-up proteins, and connect to other proteins to safeguard against neurodegeneration in AD, PD, GN, and glioblastoma. By interacting with these proteins, 14-3-3\u202fs stop Bad and Bax proteins from entering mitochondria and make them less effective. These interactions inhibit neuronal apoptosis. They play many important roles in managing the breakdown of lysosomal proteins, tau, and A\u03b2, which is why the 14-3-3\u202fs could be used as therapeutic targets in AD. Furthermore, researchers have discovered 14-3-3\u202fs in Lewy bodies, which are associated with various proteins like LRRK2, ASN, and Parkin, all of which play a role in developing Parkinson's disease (PD). The 14-3-3\u202fs influence the premature aging and natural wrinkles of human skin. Studies have shown that lowering 14-3-3\u202fs in the brain can lead to an increase in cell-death proteins like BAX and ERK, which in turn causes excitotoxicity-induced neurodegeneration. This review aimed to clarify the role of 14-3-3\u202fs in the neuropathology of AD, PD, and GN, as well as potential diagnostic markers for improving neuronal survival and repair.", 
    "abstract": "Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) is the key enzyme in the salvaging synthesize pathway of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). The neuroprotective roles of NAMPT on neurodegeneration have been explored in aging brain and Alzheimer's Disease. However, its roles in Parkinson's Disease (PD) remain to be elucidated. We found that the dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra expressed higher levels of NAMPT than the other types of neurons. Using conditional knockout of the Nampt gene in dopaminergic neurons and utilizing a NAMPT inhibitor in the substantia nigra of mice, we found that the NAMPT deficiency triggered the time-dependent loss of dopaminergic neurons, the impairment of the dopamine nigrostriatal pathway, and the development of PD-like motor dysfunction. In the rotenone-induced PD mouse model, nicotinamide ribose (NR), a precursor of NAD, rescued the loss of dopaminergic neurons, the impairment of dopamine nigrostriatal pathway, and mitigated PD-like motor dysfunction. In SH-SY5Y cells, NAD suppression induced the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial impairment, and cell death, which was reversed by N-acetyl cysteine, an antioxidant and ROS scavenger. Rotenone decreased NAD level, induced the accumulation of ROS and the impairment of mitochondria, which was reversed by NR. In summary, our findings show that the ablation of NAMPT in dopaminergic neurons leads to neurodegeneration and contributes to the development of PD. The NAD precursors have the potential to protect the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, and offering a therapeutic approach for the treatment of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease in the world, severely affecting the quality of life of patients. Recent studies have shown that white matter (WM) plays a vital role in higher neurological functions such as behavior and cognition. In PD patients, neurodegeneration occurs not only in neuronal soma, but also in WM fiber bundles, which are composed of neural axons. The clinical symptoms of PD patients are related not only to the degeneration of neuronal soma, but also to the degeneration of WM. Most previous studies have focused on neuronal soma in substantia nigra (SN), while WM injury (WMI) in PD has been less studied. Moreover, most previous studies have focused on intracerebral lesions in PD, while less attention has been paid to the spinal cord distal to the brain. The above-mentioned factors may be one of the reasons for the poor treatment of previous drug outcomes. Neuroinflammation has been shown to exert a significant effect on the pathological process of brain and spinal cord neurodegeneration in PD. The NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome has been shown to activate and mediate neuroinflammation and exacerbate neurodegeneration in PD. NLRP3 inflammasome inhibition may be a potential strategy for the treatment of WMI in PD. This review summarizes recent advances and future directions regarding neuroinflammation-mediated WMI in PD and potential therapeutic strategies for targeting NLRP3 inflammasome in the brain and spinal cord, providing new insights for researchers to develop more effective therapeutic approaches for PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) emerges as a notable health concern among the elderly population. Safinamide mesylate (SAF) is a novel and emerging add-on therapy in PD treatment. The stability of innovative drug formulations and the development of appropriate stability-indicating methods are of great importance to modern pharmaceutical analysis. The current work has established novel comprehensive stability-indicating chromatographic approaches, HPTLC coupled with densitometric quantification and HPLC-DAD, for the selective assay of SAF in pharmaceutical formulation along with its synthetic precursor impurity; 4-hydroxy benzaldehyde (4-HBD) in presence of its stress induced degradation products. The stability of SAF was investigated under different stress conditions. It was found that SAF is likely to undergo acid, base hydrolysis, and oxidative degradation. Using mass spectrometry and infrared spectroscopy, the structures of the forced degradation products were confirmed and elucidated. The dissolution behavior of Parkimedine", 
    "abstract": "The cannabigerol derivative VCE-003.2, which has activity at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-\u03b3 has afforded neuroprotection in experimental models of Parkinson's disease (PD) based on mitochondrial dysfunction (6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned mice) and neuroinflammation (LPS-lesioned mice). Now, we aim to explore VCE-003.2 neuroprotective properties in a PD model that also involves protein dysregulation, other key event in PD pathogenesis.\nTo this end, an adeno-associated viral vector serotype 9 coding for a mutated form of the \u03b1-synuclein gene (AAV9-SynA53T) was unilaterally delivered in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) of mice. This model leads to motor impairment and progressive loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-labelled neurons in the SNpc.\nOral administration of VCE-003.2 at 20\u00a0mg/kg for 14 days improved the performance of mice injected with AAV9-SynA53T in various motor tests, correlating with the preservation of tyrosine hydroxylase-labelled neurons in the SNpc. VCE-003.2 also reduced reactive microgliosis and astrogliosis in the SNpc. Furthermore, we conducted a transcriptomic analysis in the striatum of mice injected with AAV9-SynA53T and treated with either VCE-003.2 or vehicle, as well as control animals. This analysis aimed to identify gene families specifically altered by the pathology and/or VCE-003.2 treatment. Our data revealed pathology-induced changes in genes related to mitochondrial function, lysosomal cell pathways, immune responses, and lipid metabolism. In contrast, VCE-003.2 treatment predominantly affected the immune response through interferon signaling.\nOur study broadens the neuroprotective potential of VCE-003.2, previously described against mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, glial reactivity and neuroinflammation in PD. We now demonstrate its efficacy against another key pathogenic event in PD as \u03b1-synuclein dysregulation. Furthermore, our investigation sheds light on the molecular mechanisms underlying VCE-003.2 revealing its role in regulating interferon signaling. These findings, together with a favorable ADMET profile, enhance the preclinical interest of VCE-003.2 towards its future clinical development in PD.", 
    "abstract": "In recent years, the glymphatic system has received increasing attention due to its possible implications in biological mechanisms associated with neurodegeneration. In the field of human brain mapping, this led to the development of diffusion tensor image analysis along the perivascular space (DTI-ALPS) index. While this index has been repeatedly used to investigate possible differences between neurodegenerative disorders and healthy controls, a comprehensive evaluation of its stability across multiple measurements and different disorders is still missing. In this study, we perform a Bayesian meta-analysis aiming to assess the consistency of the DTI-ALPS results previously reported for 12 studies on Parkinson's disease and 11 studies on Alzheimer's disease. We also evaluated if the measured value of the DTI-ALPS index can quantitatively inform the diagnostic process, allowing disambiguation between these two disorders. Our results, expressed in terms of Bayes' Factor values, confirmed that the DTI-ALPS index is consistent in measuring the different functioning of the glymphatic system between healthy subjects and patients for both Parkinson's disease (Log10(BF10)\u2009=\u200930) and Alzheimer's disease (Log10(BF10)\u2009=\u200910). Moreover, we showed that the DTI-ALPS can be used to compare these two disorders directly, therefore providing a first proof of concept supporting the reliability of taking into consideration this neuroimaging measurement in the diagnostic process. Our study underscores the potential of the DTI-ALPS index in advancing our understanding of neurodegenerative pathologies and enhancing clinical diagnostics.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent type of neurodegenerative disorder. AVE0991, a non-peptide analogue of Ang-(1-7), by which the progression of PD has been discovered to be ameliorated, but the specific mechanism whereby AVE0991 modulates the progression of PD re-mains unclear. The mice overexpressing human \u03b1-syn (A53T) were established to simulate PD pathology, and we also constructed an in vitro model of mouse dopaminergic neurons overexpressing h\u03b1-syn (A53T). The [", 
    "abstract": "Pisa syndrome (PS) is a postural abnormality that frequently manifests in various neurological disorders. In recent years, the dangers associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) and PS have been increasingly acknowledged, leading to heightened research efforts directed toward the treatment of PS. Nevertheless, the underlying causes of PS remain complex, and no clinically effective treatments have been established. While several studies have demonstrated the significant effects of Qigong in treating PD, there is currently no evidence to support the efficacy of Qigong in the treatment of PS.\nTo assess the immediate and long-term effects of Zhan Zhuang Qigong on PS in participants with PD using a rigorous randomised, parallel-control design with assignment concealment and evaluator-blinding methodologies.\n60 PD participants meeting the inclusion criteria will be recruited and randomly assigned to one of two groups: conventional treatment (n=30) or Zhan Zhuang Qigong (n=30). The conventional treatment group will receive standard medications and physical therapy. The Zhan Zhuang Qigong group will receive conventional medicine plus 30\u2009min of Zhan Zhuang Qigong practiced five times per week. The long-term effects of Qigong on PS will be evaluated after 6\u2009months and 1 year of follow-up. Assessment tools will include the NeuroPostureApp, the B-PHY(A model of a balance testing system) balance check training system, the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and the Parkinson's Disease Quality of Life Questionnaire, which will measure total camptocormia, upper hump degree, Pisa angles, plantar pressure distribution, motor function and quality of life in participants with PD.\nThe local ethics committee approved this study (approval number: 2023-K068). The committee will oversee the study throughout its duration and will be notified of any protocol modifications. The results of the study will be disseminated through publication in an international journal or presentation at a conference.\nChiCTR2400079696.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex disorder that arises from genetic and environmental factors. The current investigation endeavors to investigate the role of exposure to organochlorine\u00a0(OCPs) and organophosphate pesticides (OPPs), recognized as the main environmental elements, in the genesis of PD. In this case-control study, 29 PD patients and 51 healthy subjects were involved. Gas chromatography was performed to measure the serum levels of organochlorine chemicals (2,4-DDT, 4,4-DDT, 2,4-DDE, 4,4-DDE, \u03b1-HCH, \u03b2-HCH, and \u03b3-HCH). Furthermore, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, arylesterase activity of paraoxonase-1 (PON-1), and several oxidative stress (OS) markers were assessed. The levels of OCPs in the PD patients were significantly higher than in the control subjects. In addition, AChE activity, arylesterase activity of PON-1, catalase activity, and superoxide dismutase 3 activity in PD patients were significantly less than controls. However, the levels of carbonyl protein, total antioxidant capacity, malondialdehyde, and nitric oxide in PD patients were higher than the controls. The findings of this investigation have indicated that OCPs and OPPs exposure could contribute to the development of Parkinson's disease. This potential linkage could either be established through the direct impact of these pesticides on the nervous system, leading to neurotoxicity, or via an indirect route through the triggering of OS.", 
    "abstract": "Therapeutic approaches based on isolated compounds derived from natural products are more common in preventing diseases involving inflammation and oxidative stress at present. S-allyl cysteine (SAC) is a promising garlic-derived organosulfur compound with many positive effects in cell models and living systems. SAC has biological activity in various fields, enclosing healing in learning and memory disorders, neurotrophic effects, and antioxidant activity. In this study, we purposed to identify the neuroprotective activity of SAC toward 6-OHDA-induced cell demise in the SH-SY5Ycell line. For this purpose, 6-OHDA-induced cytotoxicity, and biochemical, and gene expression changes were evaluated in SH-SY5Y cells. SH-SY5Y cells grown in cell culture were treated with SAC 24\u202fh\u00a0before and after 6-OHDA application. Then, cell viability, antioxidant parameters, and gene expressions were measured. Finally, immunofluorescence staining analysis was performed. Our results showed that SAC increased cell viability by 144\u202f% at 80\u202f\u00b5g/mL with pre-incubation (2\u202fh). It was observed that antioxidant levels were significantly increased and oxidative stress marker levels were decreased in cells exposed to 6-OHDA after pre-treatment with SAC (", 
    "abstract": "\u03b1-Synuclein misfolding and progressive accumulation drives a pathogenic process in Parkinson's disease. To understand cellular and network vulnerability to \u03b1-synuclein pathology, we developed a framework to quantify network-level vulnerability and identify new therapeutic targets at the cellular level. Full brain \u03b1-synuclein pathology was mapped in mice over 9 months. Empirical pathology data was compared to theoretical pathology estimates from a diffusion model of pathology progression along anatomical connections. Unexplained variance in the model enabled us to derive regional vulnerability that we compared to regional gene expression. We identified gene expression patterns that relate to regional vulnerability, including 12 kinases that were enriched in vulnerable regions. Among these, an inhibitor of group II PAKs demonstrated protection from neuron death and \u03b1-synuclein pathology, even after delayed compound treatment. This study provides a framework for the derivation of cellular vulnerability from network-based studies and identifies a promising therapeutic pathway for Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Multiple studies suggest that Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with changes in neuronal activity throughout the basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor circuit. There are limited electrophysiological data, however, describing how parkinsonism impacts neuronal activity in the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), an area in medial frontal cortex involved in movement planning and motor control. In this study, single unit activity was recorded in the pre-SMA of two non-human primates during a visually cued reaching task in both the naive and parkinsonian state using the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of parkinsonism. In the naive state neuronal discharge rates were dynamically modulated prior to the presentation of the instructional go-cue. In a subset of these modulated cells, the magnitude of modulation correlated linearly with reaction time (RT). In the parkinsonian state, however, modulation of discharge rates in the pre-SMA was disrupted and the predictive encoding of RT was significantly diminished. These findings add to our understanding of the role of pre-SMA in motor behavior and suggest that disrupted encoding in this cortical area contributes to the alteration of early preparatory and pre-movement processes that are present in Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is often characterized by altered rates and patterns of neuronal activity in the sensorimotor regions of the basal ganglia thalamocortical network. Little is known, however, regarding how neuronal activity in the executive control network of the brain changes in the parkinsonian condition.\nInvestigate the impact of parkinsonism on neuronal activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), a key region in executive control, during a go/nogo reaching task.\nUsing a within-subject design, single and multi-unit neuronal activity was recorded in the DLPFC of a nonhuman primate before and after the induction of mild parkinsonism using the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP).\nCoincident with development of mild parkinsonian motor signs, there was a marked reduction in the percentage of DLPFC cells with significant task-related firing rate modulation during go and nogo conditions.\nThese results suggest that DLPFC dysfunction may occur early in parkinsonism and contribute to cognitive impairments and disrupted executive function often observed in PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Transposable Elements (TEs) are implicated in aging and neurodegenerative disorders, but the impact of brain TE RNA dynamics on these phenomena is not fully understood. Therefore, we quantified TE RNA changes in aging post-mortem human and mouse brains and in the neurodegenerative disorders Huntington's Disease (HD) and Parkinson's Disease (PD). We tracked TE small RNAs (smRNAs) expression landscape to assess the relationship to the active processing from TE long RNAs (lnRNAs). Human brain transcriptomes from the BrainSpan Atlas displayed a significant shift of TE smRNA patterns at age 20 years, whereas aging mouse brains lacked any such marked change, despite clear shift in aging-associated mRNA levels. Human frontal cortex displayed pronounced sense TE smRNAs during aging with a negative relationship between the TE smRNAs and lnRNAs indicative of age associated regulatory effects. Our analysis revealed TE smRNAs dysregulation in HD, while PD showed a stronger impact on TE lnRNAs, potentially correlating with the early average age of death for HD relative to PD. Furthermore, TE-silencing factor TRIM28 was down-regulated only in aging human brains, possibly explaining the lack of substantial TE RNA changes in aging mouse brains. Our study suggests brain TE RNAs may serve as novel biomarkers of human brain aging and neurodegenerative disorders.", 
    "abstract": "\u03b1-Synuclein (\u03b1-syn) strains can serve as discriminators between Parkinson's disease (PD) from other \u03b1-synucleinopathies. The relationship between \u03b1-syn strain dynamics and clinical performance as patients transition from normal cognition (NC) to cognitive impairment (CI) is not known. Here, we show that the biophysical properties and neurotoxicity of \u03b1-syn strains change as PD cognitive status transitions from NC to mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) and dementia (PD-D). Both cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses reveal distinct \u03b1-syn strains in PD patients correlating to their level of cognitive impairment. This study presents evidence that individuals with PD have different \u03b1-syn strains that change in accordance with their cognitive status and highlights the potential of \u03b1-syn strain dynamics to guide future diagnosis, management, and stratification of PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "In this paper, we leveraged Large Language Models(LLMs) to accelerate data wrangling and automate labor-intensive aspects of data discovery and harmonization. This work promotes interoperability standards and enhances data discovery, facilitating AI-readiness in biomedical science with the generation of Common Data Elements (CDEs) as key to harmonizing multiple datasets. Thirty-one studies, various ontologies, and medical coding systems served as source material to create CDEs from which available metadata and context was sent as an API request to 4th-generation OpenAI GPT models to populate each metadata field. A human-in-the-loop (HITL) approach was used to assess quality and accuracy of the generated CDEs. To regulate CDE generation, we employed ElasticSearch and HITL to avoid duplicate CDEs and instead, added them as potential aliases for existing CDEs. The generated CDEs are foundational to assess the interoperability potential of datasets by determining how many data set column headers can be correctly mapped to CDEs as well as quantifying compliance with permissible values and data types. Subject matter experts reviewed generated CDEs and determined that 94.0% of generated metadata fields did not require manual revisions. Data tables from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) and the Global Parkinson's Genetic Program (GP2) were used as test cases for interoperability assessments. Column headers from all test cases were successfully mapped to generated CDEs at a rate of 32.4% via elastic search.The interoperability score, a metric for dataset compatibility to CDEs and other connected datasets, based on relevant criteria such as data field completeness and compliance with common harmonization standards averaged 53.8 out of 100 for test cases. With this project, we aim to automate the most tedious aspects of data harmonization, enhancing efficiency and scalability in biomedical research while decreasing activation energy for federated research.", 
    "abstract": "We aimed to identify plasma cell-free transcripts (cfRNA) associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) that also have a high predictive value to differentiate PD from healthy controls. Leveraging two independent populations from two different movement disorder centers we identified 2,188 differentially expressed cfRNAs after meta-analysis. The identified transcripts were enriched in PD relevant pathways, such as PD (p=9.26\u00d710", 
    "abstract": "Growth and aging are fundamental elements of human development. Aging is defined by a decrease in physiological activities and higher illness vulnerability. Affected by lifestyle, environmental, and hereditary elements, aging results in disorders including cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, and neurological diseases, which accounted for 16.1 million worldwide deaths in 2019. Stress-induced cellular senescence, caused by DNA damage, can reduce tissue regeneration and repair, promoting aging. The root cause of many age-related disorders is inflammation, encouraged by the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Aging's metabolic changes and declining immune systems raise illness risk via promoting microbiome diversity. Stable, individual-specific skin and oral microbiomes are essential for both health and disease since dysbiosis is linked with periodontitis and eczema. Present from birth to death, the human microbiome, under the influence of diet and lifestyle, interacts symbiotically with the body. Poor dental health has been linked to Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases since oral microorganisms and systemic diseases have important interactions. Emphasizing the importance of microbiome health across the lifetime, this study reviews the understanding of the microbiome's role in aging-related diseases that can direct novel diagnosis and treatment approaches.", 
    "abstract": "Efforts to develop disease-modifying treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD) have been hindered by the lack of animal models replicating all hallmarks of PD and the insufficient attention to extra-nigrostriatal regions pathologically critical for the prodromal appearance of non-motor symptoms. Among PD models, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) infusion in mice has gained prominence since 2012, primarily focusing on the nigrostriatal region. This study characterized widespread tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neuron and fiber loss across the brain following a unilateral 6-OHDA (20 \u03bcg) infusion into the dorsal striatum. Our analysis integrates immunolabeling, brain clearing (iDISCO+), light sheet microscopy, and computational methods, including fMRI and machine learning tools. We also examined sex differences, disease progression, neuroinflammatory responses, and pro-apoptotic signaling in nigrostriatal regions of C57BL/6 mice exposed to varying 6-OHDA dosages (5, 10, or 20 \u03bcg). This comprehensive, spatiotemporal analysis of 6-OHDA-induced pathology may guide the future design of experimental PD studies and neurotherapeutic development.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder. However, current treatments are directed at symptoms and lack ability to slow or prevent disease progression. Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous genomic loci associated with PD, which may guide the development of disease-modifying treatments. We presented a systems genetics approach to identify potential risk genes and repurposable drugs for PD. First, we leveraged non-coding GWAS loci effects on multiple human brain-specific quantitative trait loci (xQTLs) under the protein-protein interactome (PPI) network. We then prioritized a set of PD likely risk genes (pdRGs) by integrating five types of molecular xQTLs: expression (eQTLs), protein (pQTLs), splicing (sQTLs), methylation (meQTLs), and histone acetylation (haQTLs). We also integrated network proximity-based drug repurposing and patient electronic health record (EHR) data observations to propose potential drug candidates for PD treatments. We identified 175 pdRGs from QTL-regulated GWAS findings, such as ", 
    "abstract": "Limited treatment options with a rapid onset of action are available to treat off episodes in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Therefore, the development of rapid onset formulations, for instance with levodopa, is warranted, which was the reason to investigate an inhalable formulation of levodopa.\nThe primary objective was to determine the duration until maximum effect is reached of inhaled levodopa on the improvement of motor function of PD patients. The secondary objective was to compare the time until maximal effect and the maximal effect of inhaled levodopa versus oral levodopa.\nOpen-label randomized two-way one-period crossover trial.\nNine PD patients in the 'off state' received one dose of inhaled levodopa (90\u2009mg) from Cyclops\u00ae and one dose of levodopa orodispersible tablet (100\u2009mg) on two consecutive days in a randomized order. A timed tapping test, Timed Up and Go test (TUG test) and Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) III score were performed pre-dose and on set time points up to 90\u2009min post-dose as measure for motor function. In addition, blood samples were taken for a pharmacokinetic evaluation (\nThe maximal effect of inhaled levodopa was reached at 30\u2009min (tapping test), at 75\u2009min (TUG test) and at 60\u2009min (UPDRS III). The positive effect on the UPDRS was statistically significant within 20\u2009min after inhalation. After oral administration, \nInhaled levodopa from Cyclops\nThe study protocol was approved by the local ethics board 'Regionale toetsingscommissie pati\u00ebntgebonden onderzoek' (RTPO) in Leeuwarden, The Netherlands (approval number RTPO1019). The study was registered in in the Dutch trial register (LTR) with identification number NL6876. From 5 March 2024 on, the research data on onderzoekmetmensen.nl are known as 'Overview of Medical Research in the Netherlands' (OMON). This means the use of the name LTR has thus been dropped. Now, it is registered in the OMON with the same identification number (NL6876, Effectiveness of inhaled levodopa in PD | Research with human participants (onderzoekmetmensen.nl)). All patients provided written informed consent.", 
    "abstract": "The search for new therapies to reduce symptoms and find a cure for Parkinson's disease has focused attention on two key points: the accumulation of alpha-synuclein aggregates and astrocytes. The former is a hallmark of the disease, while the latter corresponds to a type of glial cell with an important role in both the prevention and development of this neurodegenerative disorder. Traditionally, research has focused on therapies targeting dopaminergic neurons. Currently, as more is known about the genetic and molecular factors and the neuroglial interaction in the disease, great emphasis has been placed on the neuroprotective role of astrocytes in the early stages of the disease and on the astrocytic capture of alpha-synuclein under both physiological and pathological conditions. This review aims to analyze the contribution of alpha-synuclein and astrocytes to the development and progression of Parkinson's disease, as well as to evaluate recent therapeutic proposals specifically focused on synucleopathies and astroglial cells as potential therapies for the disease.", 
    "abstract": "Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) and \u03b1-synuclein are involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The activity of LRRK2 in microglial cells is associated with neuroinflammation, and LRRK2 inhibitors are crucial for alleviating this neuroinflammatory response. \u03b1-synuclein contributes to oxidative stress in the dopaminergic neuron and neuroinflammation through Toll-like receptors in microglia. In this study, we investigated the effect of the marine alga ", 
    "abstract": "PD (PD) is associated with a twofold increase in the risk of death especially sudden death. A predisposing factor for cardiac sudden death is prolongation of the QT interval. This study evaluated the potential association between QT interval and PD.\nA systematic search was conducted of Medline and EMBASE using the search terms \"PD\" AND \"QT interval\" OR \"Cardiac Repolarization\" to identify articles.\nSeven studies with persons with PD (\nIndividuals with PD have a longer QT interval than individuals without PD. The QT interval is associated with a greater severity of PD and a greater probability of developing more severe PD. The QT interval should be considered in assessment of PD and possibly as a target for the treatment of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Sonogenetics is an innovative technology that integrates ultrasound with genetic editing to precisely modulate cellular activities in a non-invasive manner. This method entails introducing and activating mechanosensitive channels on the cell membrane of specific cells using gene delivery vectors. When exposed to ultrasound, these channels can be manipulated to open or close, thereby impacting cellular functions. Sonogenetics is currently being used extensively in the treatment of various chronic diseases, including Parkinson's disease, vision restoration, and cancer therapy. This paper provides a comprehensive review of key components of sonogenetics and focuses on evaluating its prospects and potential challenges in the treatment of chronic disease.", 
    "abstract": "The voluntary nature of decision-making is fundamental to human behavior. The subthalamic nucleus is important in reactive decision-making, but its role in voluntary decision-making remains unclear. We recorded from deep brain stimulation subthalamic electrodes time-locked with acute stimulation using a Go/Nogo task to assess voluntary action and inaction. Beta oscillations during voluntary decision-making were temporally dissociated from motor function. Parkinson's patients showed an inaction bias with high beta and intermediate physiological states. Stimulation reversed the inaction bias highlighting its causal nature, and shifting physiology closer to reactive choices. Depression was associated with higher alpha during Voluntary-Nogo characterized by inaction or inertial status quo maintenance whereas apathy had higher beta-gamma during voluntary action or impaired effortful initiation of action. Our findings suggest the human subthalamic nucleus causally contributes to voluntary decision-making, possibly through threshold gating or toggling mechanisms, with stimulation shifting towards voluntary action and suggest biomarkers as potential clinical predictors.", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive impairment (CI) is common in \u03b1-synucleinopathies, i.e., Parkinson's disease, Lewy bodies dementia, and multiple system atrophy. We summarize data from systematic reviews/meta-analyses on neuroimaging, neurophysiology, biofluid and genetic diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers of CI in \u03b1-synucleinopathies. Diagnostic biomarkers include atrophy/functional neuroimaging brain changes, abnormal cortical amyloid and tau deposition, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers, cortical rhythm slowing, reduced cortical cholinergic and glutamatergic and increased cortical GABAergic activity, delayed P300 latency, increased plasma homocysteine and cystatin C and decreased vitamin B12 and folate, increased CSF/serum albumin quotient, and serum neurofilament light chain. Prognostic biomarkers include brain regional atrophy, cortical rhythm slowing, CSF amyloid biomarkers, Val66Met polymorphism, and apolipoprotein-E \u03b52 and \u03b54 alleles. Some AD/amyloid/tau biomarkers may diagnose/predict CI in \u03b1-synucleinopathies, but single, validated diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers lack. Future studies should include large consortia, biobanks, multi-omics approach, artificial intelligence, and machine learning to better reflect the complexity of CI in \u03b1-synucleinopathies.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) of the midbrain, resulting in severe motor impairments. Inorganic pyrophosphatase 1 (PPA1) plays a key role in various biological processes, and this study introduces a cell-penetrating PPA1 fusion protein (TAT-PPA1) to explore its transduction into cells and brain tissues. TAT-PPA1 effectively penetrates SH-SY5Y cells and the SN region of PD animal models without toxicity, exhibiting protective effects against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP-)-induced cell death. TAT-PPA1 revealed an inhibitory influence on the MAPK signaling pathway and MPTP-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. TAT-PPA1 suppresses JNK, AKT, p53, ERK, and p38 phosphorylation, showcasing its multifaceted role in cell survival pathways. In the MPTP-induced PD animal model, TAT-PPA1 prevents dopaminergic cell death and enhances motor function. This study shows that TAT-PPA1 protects against oxidative stress and cell death in neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting potential as a PD treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Several mechanisms underlying Parkinson's disease (PD) remain unclear, and effective treatments are still lacking. The conjugation of the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO), known as SUMOylation, to key proteins in PD has shown potential beneficial effects. Considering that this process is reversed by SUMO-specific proteases (SENPs), this study addressed the effects of increased SUMO-2/3 conjugation, mediated by SENP3 knockdown, in the intranasal 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) rodent model of PD. Two weeks after infusion of the shRNA-containing lentiviral vector into the dorsolateral striatum and one week following intranasal MPTP administration, male Wistar rats were evaluated using cognitive and motor behavioural tests. Infection efficiency was confirmed by detecting GFP expression in the dorsolateral striatum. SENP3 knockdown, verified by Western blotting, resulted in increased SUMO-2/3 conjugation. MPTP-administered rats displayed impairments in both recognition and spatial memories, while SENP3 knockdown prevented these deficits. Rats exposed to MPTP also exhibited motor dysfunction, which was ameliorated by SENP3 knockdown. These findings underscore the involvement of SUMO-2/3 conjugation in PD and its potential as a novel therapeutic target to counteract cognitive and motor impairments induced by neurodegeneration.", 
    "abstract": "One of the main hallmarks of Parkinson's disease (PD) pathology is the spread of the aggregate-prone protein \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn), which can be detected in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of patients as well as in the extracellular environment of neuronal cells. The secreted \u03b1-syn can exhibit \"prion-like\" behavior and transmission to na\u00efve cells can promote conformational changes and pathology. The precise role of plasma membrane proteins in the pathologic process of \u03b1-syn is yet to be fully resolved. The TMEM16 family of lipid scramblases and ion channels has been recently associated with cancer and infectious diseases but is less known for its role in aging-related diseases. To elucidate the role of TMEM16F in \u03b1-syn spread, we transduced neurons derived from TMEM16F knockout mice with a reporter system that enables the distinction between donor and recipient neurons of pathologic \u03b1-synA53T. We found that the spread of \u03b1-synA53T was reduced in neurons derived from TMEM16F-knockout mice. These findings were recapitulated in\u00a0vivo in a mouse model of PD, where attenuated \u03b1-synA53T spread was observed when TMEM16F was ablated. Moreover, we identified a single nucleotide polymorphism in TMEM16F of Ashkenazi Jewish PD patients resulting in a missense Ala703Ser mutation with enhanced lipid scramblase activity. This mutation is associated with altered regulation of \u03b1-synA53T extracellular secretion in cellular models of PD. Our study highlights TMEM16F as a novel regulator of \u03b1-syn spread and as a potential therapeutic target in synucleinopathies.", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established treatment for neurodegenerative movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease that mitigates symptoms by overwriting pathological signals from the central nervous system to the motor system. Nearly all computational models of DBS, directly or indirectly, associate clinical improvements with the extent of fiber activation in the vicinity of the stimulating electrode. However, it is not clear how such activation modulates information transmission. Here, we use the exact cable equation for straight or curved axons and show that DBS segregates the signaling pathways into one of the three communicational modes: complete information blockage, uni-, and bi-directional transmission. Furthermore, all these modes respond to the stimulating pulse in an asynchronous but frequency-locked fashion. Asynchrony depends on the geometry of the axon, its placement and orientation, and the stimulation protocol. At the same time, the electrophysiology of the nerve determines frequency-locking. Such a trimodal response challenges the notion of activation as a binary state and studies that correlate it with the DBS outcome. Importantly, our work suggests that a mechanistic understanding of DBS action relies on distinguishing between these three modes of information transmission.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorders, with current treatments offering only temporary symptomatic relief. There is an urgent need for the development of novel therapeutic approaches. Abnormal increases in LRRK2 kinase activity have been identified in both sporadic and familial PD patients, suggesting that inhibiting LRRK2 kinase activity presents a promising avenue for the pursuit of effective PD treatment strategies. In this Viewpoint, we discuss the exciting new insights regarding the development of LRRK2 kinase inhibitors as a treatment for Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Chronic musculoskeletal pain often co-occurs with Parkinson's disease (PD); however, whether individuals with chronic pain have a higher risk of developing PD is unclear.\nTo investigate the associations between chronic pain and incident risk of three neurodegenerative parkinsonism categories including PD, multiple system atrophy (MSA), and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP).\nThis study included 355,890 participants (mean [standard deviation] age, 56.51 [8.07] years, 48.40% male) who did not have parkinsonism at baseline from a population-based cohort. Musculoskeletal pain in the hip, neck/shoulder, back, knee, or \"all over the body\" was assessed. Chronic pain was defined if pain lasted \u22653\u2009months. Participants were categorized into four groups: no chronic pain, having one or two, three or four sites, and pain \"all over the body.\" The diagnosis of PD, MSA, and PSP used self-reports, hospital records, and death registries. Multivariable-adjusted Cox regression was performed for the analyses.\nOver a median follow-up of 13.0\u2009years, 2044 participants developed PD, 77 participants developed MSA, and 126 participants developed PSP. In multivariable analyses, there was a dose-response relationship between number of chronic pain sites and incident risk of PD (hazard ratio,\u20091.15; 95% confidence interval, 1.07-1.23). Participants with one or two pain sites and three or four pain sites had an 11% and 49% increased risk of developing PD, respectively. There were no associations between chronic pain and MSA or PSP.\nChronic musculoskeletal pain was independently associated with PD, suggesting that chronic pain could be used to identify individuals at risk of developing PD. \u00a9 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "The cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome (CCAS) encompasses cognitive and affective symptoms in patients with cerebellar disorders, for which no proven treatment is available.\nOur primary objective was to study the effect of cerebellar anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on cognitive performance in CCAS patients. Secondary effects on ataxia severity, mood, and quality of life were explored.\nWe performed a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled trial. Thirty-five patients with CCAS were included and received 10 sessions of 20\u2009minutes sham (n\u2009=\u200917) or real (n\u2009=\u200918) tDCS, with a current of 2\u2009mA. Cognitive performance was assessed using executive function subtests of the computerized Test of Attentional Performance (TAP), with the composite as primary endpoint. Secondary outcomes were ataxia severity, mood, and quality of life. Outcomes were evaluated 1, 3, 6, and 12 months post-intervention.\nCerebellar tDCS was well tolerated and no serious adverse events related to the intervention occurred. No significant tDCS effect was found on cognitive performance. Improvement on the TAP was observed in the sham group 1\u2009month post-treatment (estimate\u2009=\u2009-0.248, 95% CI,\u2009-0.49 to -0.01), but not clinically relevant. A positive tDCS effect was observed for ataxia severity 1\u2009month post-treatment (estimate\u2009=\u2009-0.985, 95% CI,\u2009-1.94 to -0.03).\nTen sessions of 20\u2009minutes cerebellar anodal tDCS did not prove efficacious for CCAS-related cognitive impairment, but a significant positive effect of tDCS was found for ataxia severity, aligning with previous findings indicative of tDCS as a therapeutic neuromodulation tool in cerebellar disorders. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "No clinical trials have been reported on the use of focused ultrasound (FUS) for treating cervical dystonia.\nWe aimed to confirm the efficacy and safety of FUS pallidothalamic tractotomy for cervical dystonia.\nThis was a prospective, open-label, non-controlled pilot study. The primary outcome was defined as a change in the score for the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale (TWSTRS) from baseline to 6\u2009months after FUS pallidothalamic tractotomy. The secondary outcomes included a change in the neck scale for the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS), mood scales including Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Apathy Evaluating Scale (AES), and adverse events. Patients were assessed for TWSTRS, BFMDRS, and adverse events at baseline, 1\u2009week, 1\u2009month, 3\u2009months, and 6\u2009months after treatment. BDI, BAI, and AES were assessed at baseline and 6\u2009months after treatment.\nTen patients were enrolled in this study. The mean age of onset of dystonia was 51.6\u2009\u00b1\u200910.2\u2009years. The TWSTRS at 6\u2009months (29.9\u2009\u00b1\u200916.0, range: 3-55) was significantly improved by 43.4% (P\u2009<\u20090.001) from baseline. The BFMDRS-Neck scales at 6\u2009months (4.2\u2009\u00b1\u20092.8) were significantly improved by 38.2% (P\u2009<\u20090.001) from baseline. The BDI, BAI, and AES at 6\u2009months were improved by 23.2%, 10.9%, and 30.3%, respectively from baseline. Reduced hand dexterity in three patients and weight gain in two patients were confirmed at the last evaluation.\nThis study suggests that FUS pallidothalamic tractotomy may be an effective treatment option for patients with cervical dystonia. \u00a9 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) is commonly developed in patients at the late stage of Parkinson's disease (PD) with unknown progression mechanisms. From the post-mortem tissues and animal models, the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the CA2 regions are closely associated with dementia development in PDD. However, the structural connection between the two regions has not been fully traced. In this study, we applied tissue clearing and adeno-associated virus (AAV) tracing to map the neural circuits in a 3D manner. Hence, we have confirmed the direct connection between the regions with two dual AAV tracing systems and traced the VTA-CA2 circuit in 3D reconstruction. With the immunostaining, we have shown that the GABAergic neurons are the potential subtype of the postsynaptic CA2 neurons in the VTA-CA2 circuit. Under the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), we have demonstrated the degeneration of the VTA-CA2 circuit from the observation of fragmented axonal projections. Collectively, we have first traced the direct connection of the whole VTA-CA2 circuit in an intact 3D manner and monitored the fragmentation of this target circuit in the 6-OHDA model. This VTA-CA2 circuit can be a target for future studies of the pathological spreading and degeneration mechanism from PD to PDD.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder, where pathological protein aggregates largely composed of phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein are implicated in disease pathogenesis and progression. Emerging evidence suggests that the interaction between pro-inflammatory microbial factors and the gut epithelium contributes to \u03b1-synuclein aggregation in the enteric nervous system. However, the cellular sources and mechanisms for \u03b1-synuclein pathology in the gut are still unclear.\nThe STC-1 cell line, which models an enteroendocrine population capable of communicating with the microbiota, immune and nervous systems, was treated with a TLR4 inhibitor (TAK-242) prior to microbial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure to investigate the role of TLR4 signalling in \u03b1-synuclein alterations. Antibodies targeting the full-length protein (\u03b1-synuclein) and the Serine-129 phosphorylated form (pS129) were used. Complex, multi-parametric image analysis was conducted through confocal microscopy (with Zen 3.8 analysis) and imaging flow cytometry (with IDEAS\u00ae analysis).\nConfocal microscopy revealed heterogenous distribution of \u03b1-synuclein and pS129 in STC-1 cells, with prominent pS129 staining along cytoplasmic processes. Imaging flow cytometry further quantified the relationship between various \u03b1-synuclein morphometric features. Thereafter, imaging flow cytometry demonstrated a dose-specific effect of LPS, where the low (8\u202f\u03bcg/mL), but not high dose (32\u202f\u03bcg/mL), significantly altered measures related to \u03b1-synuclein intensity, distribution, and localisation. Pre-treatment with a TLR4 inhibitor TAK-242 alleviated some of these significant alterations.\nThis study demonstrates that LPS-TLR4 signalling alters the intracellular localisation of \u03b1-synuclein in enteroendocrine cells in vitro and showcases the utility of combining imaging flow cytometry to investigate subtle protein changes that may not be apparent through confocal microscopy alone. Further investigation is required to understand the apparent dose-dependent effects of LPS on \u03b1-synuclein in the gut epithelium in healthy states as well as conditions such as Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Loss of proteostasis is well documented during physiological aging and depends on the progressive decline in the activity of two major degradative mechanisms: the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the autophagy-lysosomal pathway. This decline in proteostasis is exacerbated in age-associated neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's Disease (PD). In PD, patients develop an accumulation of aggregated proteins and dysfunctional mitochondria, which leads to ROS production, neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. We recently reported that inhibition of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP14, which is known to enhance both the UPS and autophagy, increases lifespan and rescues the pathological phenotype of two Drosophila models of PD. Studies on the effects of USP14 inhibition in mammalian neurons have not yet been conducted. To close this gap, we exploited iNeurons differentiated from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), and investigated the effect of inhibiting USP14 in these cultured neurons. Quantitative global proteomics analysis performed following genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of USP14 demonstrated that USP14 loss of function specifically promotes mitochondrial autophagy in iNeurons. Biochemical and imaging data also showed that USP14 inhibition enhances mitophagy. The mitophagic effect of USP14 inhibition proved to be PINK1/Parkin- independent, instead relying on expression of the mitochondrial E3 Ubiquitin Ligase MITOL/MARCH5. Notably, USP14 inhibition normalized the mitochondrial defects of Parkin KO human neurons.", 
    "abstract": "Using regional homogeneity (ReHo) and functional connectivity (FC) to assess alterations in brain function and their potential relation to different Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) stages in Parkinson's disease (PD).\n66 patients with PD and 57 age- and sex-matched healthy control (HC) participants were recruited. All subjects underwent clinical assessments and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) scanning. We analyzed alterations in regional brain activity using ReHo analyses in all subjects and further explored their relationship to disease severity. Finally, the brain region significantly associated with disease severity was used as a seed point to analyze the FC changes between it and other brain regions in the whole brain.\nCompared with HC participants, PD patients showed a significant decrease ReHo in the sensorimotor network (bilateral precentral and postcentral gyrus). The ReHo value of the left precentral gyrus in PD patients decreased with increasing H&Y stage and correlated negatively with Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) III scores. Further, FC analysis of the left precentral gyrus as a region of interest showed that functional activity between the left precentral gyrus and sensorimotor network, default network, and visual network was decreased.\nThe left precentral gyrus plays an important role in the pathophysiological mechanisms of PD patients, and this finding further highlights the potential of the primary motor cortex (M1) as a non-invasive therapeutic target for neuromodulation in PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "GLP-1 receptor agonists, traditionally used for treating type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity, have demonstrated anti-inflammatory properties. However, their potential neuroprotective effects in neurodegenerative disorders remain unclear.\nTo evaluate the impact of GLP-1 receptor agonists on the risk of developing various neurodegenerative conditions in obese patients.\nThis comprehensive retrospective cohort study analyzed data from 5,307,845 obese adult patients across 73 healthcare organizations in 17 countries. Propensity score matching was performed, resulting in 102,935 patients in each cohort. We compared the risk of developing neurodegenerative disorders between obese patients receiving GLP-1 receptor agonist therapy and those who were not.\nObese patients treated with GLP-1 receptor agonists showed significantly lower risks of developing Alzheimer's disease (RR\u00a0=\u00a00.627, 95\u00a0%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.481-0.817), Lewy body dementia (RR\u00a0=\u00a00.590, 95\u00a0%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.462-0.753), and vascular dementia (RR\u00a0=\u00a00.438, 95\u00a0%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.327-0.588). The risk reduction for Parkinson's disease was not statistically significant overall (RR\u00a0=\u00a00.784, 95\u00a0%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.580-1.058) but was significant for semaglutide users (RR\u00a0=\u00a00.574, 95\u00a0%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.369-0.893). Semaglutide consistently showed the most pronounced protective effects across all disorders. Additionally, a significant reduction in all-cause mortality was observed (HR\u00a0=\u00a00.525, 95\u00a0%CI\u00a0=\u00a00.493-0.558).\nThis study provides evidence that the effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists may extend beyond their known metabolic and cardioprotective benefits to include neuroprotection, associated with a decreased risk of developing various neurodegenerative disorders. These findings suggest the potential for expanding the therapeutic applications of GLP-1 receptor agonists to improve neurocognitive outcomes. Further research is warranted to elucidate the mechanisms underlying these neuroprotective effects and to explore their clinical applications in neurodegenerative disease prevention and treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Weight loss is considered a common complication of Parkinson's disease (PD), but there are few prospective longitudinal studies on weight loss in patients followed from time of PD diagnosis. We sought to determine the frequency, evolution and risk factors of weight loss in a representative incident PD cohort.\nIn this prospective population-based observational study, we followed 180 newly-diagnosed, initially drug-na\u00efve PD patients and 161 controls with repetitive weight examinations over 9 years. We used Cox regression models with adjustment for potential confounders to identify independent risk factors of clinically significant (>10\u00a0%) weight loss.\nMean % weight change during follow-up was -3.9 (\u00b111.2) in patients and -1.4 (\u00b18.1) in controls (p\u00a0=\u00a00.016). Clinically significant weight loss was observed in 26.7\u00a0% of patients and 10.6\u00a0% of controls (RR 2.53; 95\u00a0% CI 1.52-4.21; p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). Age was the only independent baseline risk factor for weight loss (HR 1.06 per year; 95\u00a0% CI 1.03-1.10; p\u00a0<\u00a00.001). Additional time-dependent risk factors were presence of olfactory impairment (HR 2.42; 95\u00a0% CI 1.14-5.15; p\u00a0=\u00a00.021), presence of dyskinesias (HR 3.14; 95\u00a0% CI 1.58-6.23; p\u00a0=\u00a00.001), and cognitive impairment (HR per MMSE unit 0.90; 95\u00a0% CI 0.82-0.99; p\u00a0=\u00a00.036). Dopamine agonist use reduced the risk of weight loss during follow-up (HR 0.44; 95\u00a0% CI 0.24-0.82; p\u00a0=\u00a00.007).\nThe risk of weight loss is more than doubled in the general PD population and associated with both disease-related features and drug-related complications. This suggests a multifactorial nature of weight loss in PD, which is important to consider in research and clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with well-documented motor symptoms as well as less recognised, but significant, non-motor symptoms. These non-motor symptoms include prodromal pain and peripheral neuropathy, the causes of which are unknown. We investigated the role of DJ-1/PARK7, a Parkinson's disease-associated gene, in prodromal pain and peripheral neuropathy. Using DJ-1 deficient mice, we conducted comprehensive sensory tests, cutaneous staining, molecular analyses and electrophysiological studies on mouse and human primary sensory neurons from dorsal root ganglia. We found that these mice exhibited cold hypersensitivity, oxidative stress, and neuropathy of the cutaneous fibres of primary sensory neurones before any motor impairments were observed. Mechanistically, DJ-1 in primary sensory neurones regulated this hypersensitivity and neuropathy via TRPA1 signalling. Interestingly, we discovered that DJ-1 also plays a role in the progression of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathies. Pain and mechanisms associated with these neuropathies were exacerbated in DJ-1 deficient mice but were significantly reduced by the pharmacological activation of DJ-1. Importantly, we also confirmed the expression of DJ-1 and its therapeutic potential in human primary sensory neurons. Thus, we uncover a peripheral mechanism of DJ-1 and propose that it may serve as a new target for developing therapeutic approaches for Parkinson's disease-linked and other painful neuropathies.", 
    "abstract": "Holmes tremor (HT) is a complex syndrome characterized by resting, postural, and kinetic tremors. HT significantly impacts patients' quality of life (QOL) and daily activities. Conventional pharmacological treatments for HT often yield inconsistent results. Emerging surgical treatments such as deep brain stimulation and various thalamotomy techniques show promise but come with challenges, including adverse events (AEs) and potential tremor recurrence. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical outcomes of unilateral MRI-guided laser interstitial thermal therapy (MRIgLITT) thalamotomy in patients with medically intractable HT, focusing on tremor reduction, QOL, and AE incidence, and provide a comprehensive review of the literature on thalamotomy techniques for HT.\nFive patients with medically intractable HT underwent unilateral MRIgLITT thalamotomy between June 2020 and January 2023. Tremor severity was assessed using the Fahn-Tolosa-Marin Tremor Rating Scale (TRS) at baseline and at 3 and 12 months postoperatively. QOL was measured using the Quality of Life in Essential Tremor (QUEST) questionnaire and 39-item Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39). Subjective patient-rated improvement was evaluated using the Patient Global Impression of Clinical Status (PGI-C) scale at 12 months. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) before the procedure and at 12 months postoperatively. AEs were monitored throughout the follow-up period.\nThe mean patient age was 50.2 \u00b1 22.37 years, with a mean tremor duration of 5.8 \u00b1 4.55 years. Significant tremor reduction was observed in the treated hand, with mean TRS scores decreasing from 19.00 \u00b1 4.36 at baseline to 11.20 \u00b1 4.44 (p = 0.043) at 3 months and 13.40 \u00b1 5.94 (p = 0.042) at 12 months, indicating a relative reduction of 41.05% and 29.47%, respectively. A significant effect was observed on the QUEST scale at 3 months (p = 0.043), but this effect was no longer present at 12 months. No significant effect was found on the PDQ-39 QOL scale. The PGI-C scale showed a high mean subjective improvement of 88.60% \u00b1 8.36% at 12 months. One patient experienced severe AEs, including dysarthria, hemiparesis, and swallowing difficulties, which required prolonged hospitalization and multidisciplinary rehabilitation, but regressed within 3 months. Cognitive performance, as measured by the MMSE, remained stable (p = 0.785).\nUnilateral MRIgLITT thalamotomy showed promise as a treatment for medically intractable HT, providing significant tremor reduction with a favorable safety profile. However, the potential for tremor recurrence and minimal functional improvement in fine motor skills highlight the need for long-term follow-up and further research. Larger, multicenter studies are necessary to validate these findings.", 
    "abstract": "A hallmark of \u03b1-synucleinopathies (e.g., Parkinson's disease) is the misfolding and aggregation of \u03b1-synuclein in tissues and biological fluids. Protein amplification assays like real-time quaking-induced conversion (RT-QuIC) are sensitive yet currently limited to semi-invasive sample types such as cerebrospinal fluid because more accessible samples, such as blood, contain inhibitors. Here, we show that Nanoparticle-enhanced Quaking-induced Conversion (Nano-QuIC) can double the speed of reactions spiked with misfolded \u03b1-synuclein while increasing sensitivity 100-fold in human plasma. Nano-QuIC detected spike concentrations down to 90 pg/mL in lysed whole blood, while reactions without nanoparticles (RT-QuIC) failed to have any detection due to the presence of strong inhibitors. Moreover, Nano-QuIC showed increased seeding activity in plasma samples from Parkinson's patients (n = 4) versus healthy controls (n = 4). This sets the groundwork for the noninvasive diagnostic use of Nano-QuIC, potentially enabling early disease detection and management through blood-based testing.", 
    "abstract": "The intricate process of \u03b1-synuclein aggregation and fibrillization holds pivotal roles in Parkinson's disease (PD) and multiple system atrophy (MSA). While mouse \u03b1-synuclein can fibrillize in vitro, whether these fibrils commonly used in research to induce this process or form can reproduce structures in the human brain remains unknown. Here, we report the first atomic structure of mouse \u03b1-synuclein fibrils, which was solved in parallel by two independent teams. The structure shows striking similarity to MSA-amplified and PD-associated E46K fibrils. However, mouse \u03b1-synuclein fibrils display altered packing arrangements, reduced hydrophobicity, and heightened fragmentation sensitivity and evoke only weak immunological responses. Furthermore, mouse \u03b1-synuclein fibrils exhibit exacerbated pathological spread in neurons and humanized \u03b1-synuclein mice. These findings provide critical insights into the structural underpinnings of \u03b1-synuclein pathogenicity and emphasize a need to reassess the role of mouse \u03b1-synuclein fibrils in the development of related diagnostic probes and therapeutic interventions.", 
    "abstract": "Quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) and transcranial sonography (TCS) offer proximal evaluations of iron load in the substantia nigra. Our prospective study aimed to investigate the relationship between QSM and TCS measurements of nigral iron content in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). In secondary analyses, we wanted to explore the correlation of substantia nigra imaging data with clinical and laboratory findings. Eighteen magnetic resonance imaging and TCS examinations were performed in 15 PD patients at various disease stages. Susceptibility measures of substantia nigra were calculated from referenced QSM maps. Echogenicity of substantia nigra on TCS was measured planimetrically (echogenic area) and by digitized analysis (echo-intensity). Iron-related blood serum parameters were measured. Clinical assessments included the Unified PD Rating Scale and non-motor symptom scales. Substantia nigra susceptibility correlated with echogenic area (Pearson correlation, r\u2009=\u20090.53, p\u2009=\u20090.001) and echo-intensity (r\u2009=\u20090.78, p\u2009<\u20090.001). Individual asymmetry indices correlated between susceptibility and echogenic area measurements (r\u2009=\u20090.50, p\u2009=\u20090.042) and, more clearly, between susceptibility and echo-intensity measurements (r\u2009=\u20090.85, p\u2009<\u20090.001). Substantia nigra susceptibility (individual mean of bilateral measurements) correlated with serum transferrin saturation (Spearman test, r\u2009=\u20090.78, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and, by trend, with serum iron (r\u2009=\u20090.69, p\u2009=\u20090.004). Nigral echogenicity was not clearly related to serum values associated with iron metabolism. Susceptibility and echogenicity measurements were unrelated to PD duration, motor subtype, and severity of motor and non-motor symptoms. The present results support the assumption that iron accumulation is involved in the increase of nigral echogenicity in PD. Nigral echo-intensity probably reflects ferritin-bound iron, e.g. stored in microglia.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multifaceted disease that is influenced by both genetic and environmental parameters. Non-coding RNAs have been shown to be ideal biomarkers for several diseases, including PD. This study was conducted to evaluate the expression levels of NEAT1, hsa-let-7a-5p, and miR-506-3p in individuals with PD to assess their efficacy for early-stage PD diagnosis.\nTwenty-four patients with PD and 29 healthy individuals participated in this study. The IntaRNA tool was used to predict potential base pairings between NEAT1 and let-7a-5p, and NEAT1 and miR-506-3p. RT-qPCR was employed to measure the relative expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), as well as nuclear enriched abundant transcript 1 (NEAT1), hsa-let-7a-5p, and miR-506-3p levels in both groups. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was calculated to evaluate the diagnostic value.\nThe PD group exhibited significantly elevated NEAT1 expression levels compared to the healthy control group. While the PD group exhibited an insignificant decreased TH expression level relative to the healthy group. Furthermore, the levels of hsa-let-7a-5p and miR-506-3p expression were seen to be decreased in patients with PD in comparison to the control group. Integration of NEAT1, hsa-let-7a-5p, and miR-506-3p levels significantly enhanced diagnostic capabilities and increased the AUC to 0.9501 (95% confidence interval: 0.8978-1.000, p < .0001).\nThe elevated NEAT1 expression and the decreased expression of hsalet- 7a-5p and miR-506-3p in PD patients indicate that these factors might contribute to the disease's pathogenesis. Combining the ROC curves of NEAT1 and hsa-let-7a-5p with miR-506-3p showed improved sensitivity and specificity, facilitating more accurate PD diagnosis. More importantly, they may contribute as promising non-invasive biomarkers for PD diagnosis.", 
    "abstract": "Bipolar disorder (BD) and major depression have been associated with an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD); however, few studies have directly compared the risk of PD development between patients with BD and major depression while considering relevant risk factors and psychotropic medications.\nUsing the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database, 21,186 patients with BD, 21,188 patients with major depression, and 42,374 controls were enrolled between 2001 and 2009, and followed until the end of 2011. Individuals who developed PD during the follow-up period were identified. Cox regression models were used to analyze the hazard ratio (HR) of developing PD, adjusting for demographic factors, comorbidities, and psychotropic medication usage.\nBoth patients with BD [HR 8.63, 95% confidence interval (CI) 6.35-11.72] and those with major depression (HR 5.68, 95% CI 4.15-7.78) had an elevated risk of subsequent PD compared to the controls. Patients with BD were associated with a 51% increased risk of subsequent PD compared with patients with major depression. Long-term treatment with antiepileptic mood stabilizers was associated with increased PD risk among patients with late-onset BD and high Charlson comorbidity index scores. Lithium was not associated with an increased PD risk.\nThe study highlights an elevated PD risk in patients with BD and major depression compared to the controls, with BD patients at highest risk. Further research is needed to elucidate the complex interplay between psychotropic medications and neurodegenerative processes in BD, aiming to optimize therapeutic strategies and improve patient outcomes.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is considered an advancing neurodegenerative disorder with unknown causes, and its association with some risk factors, including aging, family history, and exposure to chemicals, makes it the second most common occurring neurodegenerative disorder throughout the world with increasing prevalence. Parkinson's disease is associated with slow movement, rigidity, tremors, imbalance, depression, anxiety, cognitive impairment, orthostasis, hyperhidrosis, sleep disorders, pain, and sensory disturbances. In recent decades, there has been a rise in research on the development of effective and potential therapies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. An important target for neuroprotection is Monoamine Oxidases (MAO), which hydrolyze neurotransmitters like dopamine and produce very reactive free radicals as a by-product. Aging and neurodegenerative illnesses cause overexpression in the brain, which exacerbates neuronal loss. The treatment of Parkinson's disease with MAO inhibitors has shown promising outcomes. Herein, we reported characteristic features of Parkinson's disease, various treatment strategies, and the SAR of potential drugs that can be explored further as lead for the development of newer molecules with improved pharmacological profiles.", 
    "abstract": "Thrombosis, the formation of blood clots in arteries or veins, poses a significant health risk by disrupting the blood flow. It can potentially lead to major cardiovascular complications such as acute myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke (arterial thrombosis) and deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism (venous thrombosis). Nevertheless, over the course of several decades, researchers have observed an association between different cardiovascular events and neurodegenerative diseases, which progressively harm and impair parts of the nervous system, particularly the brain. Furthermore, thrombotic complications have been identified in numerous clinical instances of neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and Huntington's disease. Substantial research indicates that endothelial dysfunction, vascular inflammation, coagulation abnormalities, and platelet hyperactivation are commonly observed in these conditions, collectively contributing to an increased risk of thrombosis. Thrombosis can, in turn, contribute to the onset, pathogenesis, and severity of these neurological disorders. Hence, this concise review comprehensively explores the correlation between cardiovascular diseases and neurodegenerative diseases, elucidating the cellular and molecular mechanisms of thrombosis in these neurodegenerative diseases. Additionally, a detailed discussion is provided on the commonly employed antithrombotic medications in the context of these neuronal diseases.", 
    "abstract": "High positivity rate of skin phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein (P-SYN) was observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is one of the most common autoimmune skin diseases associated with PD.\nOur aim was to investigate whether BP patients might be a targeted risk population for the screening of skin P-SYN.\nSkin P-SYN expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in BP patients with/without PD.\nTwenty-two BP patients with PD, 24 BP patients without PD, and seven healthy donors were enrolled. Colocalization of P-SYN and PGP9.5 was found in all BP patients, but only one healthy control, whereas BP patients with PD showed higher expression than BP patients without PD (mean\u2009\u00b1\u2009standard deviation, 10.7\u2009\u00b1\u20096.7 vs. 7.3\u2009\u00b1\u20093.2; P\u2009=\u20090.027). Positive expression was mainly observed in basement membrane zone and dermis.\nThese results indicated BP patients might be a targeted risk population for the screening of skin P-SYN, which was helpful for the detection of PD early. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "This review examines the role of metabolic connectivity based on fluorodeoxyglucose-PET in understanding brain network organization across neurologic disorders, with a focus on neurodegenerative diseases. The article explores key methodologies for metabolic connectivity study and highlights altered connectivity patterns in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, frontotemporal dementia, and other conditions. It also discusses emerging applications, including single-subject analyses and brain-organ interactions.", 
    "abstract": "The complex network of factors that contribute to neurodegeneration have hampered the discovery of effective preventative measures. While much work has focused on brain-first therapeutics, it is becoming evident that physiological changes outside of the brain are the best target for early interventions. Specifically, myeloid cells, including peripheral macrophages and microglia, are a sensitive population of cells whose activity can directly impact neuronal health. Myeloid cell activity includes cytokine production, migration, debris clearance, and phagocytosis. Environmental measures that can modulate these activities range from toxin exposure to diet. However, one of the most influential mediators of myeloid fitness is the gut microenvironment. Here, we review the current data about the role of myeloid cells in gastrointestinal disorders, Parkinson's disease, dementia, and multiple sclerosis. We then delve into the gut microbiota modulating therapies available and clinical evidence for their use in neurodegeneration. Modulating lifestyle and environmental mediators of inflammation are one of the most promising interventions for neurodegeneration and a systematic and concerted effort to examine these factors in healthy aging is the next frontier.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Neurofilaments are intermediate filaments present in neurons. These provide structural support and maintain the size and shape of the neurons. Dysregulation, mutation, and aggregation of neurofilaments raise the levels of these proteins in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which are characteristic features of axonal damage and certain rare neurological diseases, such as Giant Axonal Neuropathy and Charcot-Mare-Tooth disease. Understanding the structure, dynamics, and function of neurofilaments has been greatly enhanced by a diverse range of biochemical and preclinical investigations conducted over more than four decades. Recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in post-translational modifications of neurofilaments, such as phosphorylation, aggregation, mutation, oxidation, etc. Over the past twenty years, several rare disorders have been studied from structural alterations of neurofilaments. These disorders are monitored by fluid biomarkers such as neurofilament light chains. Currently, there are many tools, such as Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay, Electrochemiluminescence Assay, Single-Molecule Array, Western/immunoblotting, etc., in use to assess the neurofilament proteins in Blood and CSF. However, all these techniques utilize expensive, non-specific, or antibody-based methods, which make them unsuitable for routine screening of neurodegenerative disorders. This provides room to search for newer sensitive, cost-effective, point-of-care tools for rapid screening of the disease. For a long time, the molecular mechanisms of neurofilaments have been poorly understood due to insufficient research attempts, and a deeper understanding of them remains elusive. Therefore, this review aims to highlight the available literature on molecular mechanisms of neurofilaments and the function of neurofilaments in axonal transport, axonal conduction, axonal growth, and neurofilament aggregation, respectively. Further, this review discusses the role of neurofilaments as potential biomarkers for the identification of several neurodegenerative diseases in clinical laboratory practice.", 
    "abstract": "Immune dysregulation in the brain and periphery is thought to contribute to the detrimental neurodegeneration that occurs in Parkinson's disease (PD). Identifying mechanisms to reverse this dysregulation is key to developing disease-altering therapeutics for this currently incurable disease. Here we utilized the longitudinal data from the Parkinson's Progression Marker Initiative to demonstrate that circulating lymphocytes progressively decline in PD and can be used to predict future motor symptom progression. Deep brain stimulation (DBS), which is used as a symptomatic treatment, could halt this progressive decline. By analyzing specific immune populations from a second cohort of patients, we could show that DBS causes a shift from the pro-inflammatory CD4", 
    "abstract": "Mating exerts profound and multifaceted effects on the physiology of female insects, particularly influencing metabolic alterations and bolstering stress resilience. Drosophila melanogaster has emerged as an excellent model to investigate the mechanism of neurodegenerative diseases. However, interplay between mating and its impact on the Drosophila brain remains a tantalizing enigma, awaiting elucidation. Herein, we reported that mating significantly improved the climbing and jumping activity in mated females compared to the virgins in Drosophila. Mating also reduced oxidative stress in the brain. Based on the results, we found that, mated females exhibited better behavioral performance and fewer loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons than unmated females in PINK1 RNAi flies, a well-established Parkinson's disease (PD) model. Further study demonstrated that mating led to decreased iron content in the brain, a process associated with decreased Transferrin 1 (Tsf1) and Malvolio (Mvl) and increased ferritin. Additionally, mating inhibited expression of Duox and Nox, two NADPH oxidases in Drosophila. Furthermore, Kr-h1, a transcription factor of JH, acted downstream of mating to regulate genes involved in iron metabolism and NADPH oxidases. Collectively, the findings suggested a pivotal role of mating in regulating iron metabolism and NADPH oxidases in the brain of Drosophila. Consequently, considering mating status is imperative in scientific research, particularly in the context of neurological disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive flexibility, the capacity to adapt behaviour to changes in the environment, is impaired in a range of brain disorders, including schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease. Putative neural substrates of cognitive flexibility include mesencephalic pathways to the ventral striatum (VS) and dorsomedial striatum (DMS), hypothesized to encode learning signals needed to maximize rewarded outcomes during decision-making. However, it is unclear whether mesencephalic projections to the ventral and dorsal striatum are distinct in their contribution to flexible reward-related learning. Here, rats acquired a two-choice spatial probabilistic reversal learning (PRL) task, reinforced on an 80%|20% basis (correct|incorrect responses) that assessed the flexibility of behaviour to repeated reversals of response-outcome contingencies. We report that optogenetic stimulation of projections from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) in the VS significantly impaired reversal learning when optical stimulation was temporally aligned with negative feedback (i.e., reward omission). VTA\u2009\u2192\u2009NAcS stimulation during other phases of the behavioural task was without significant effect. Optogenetic stimulation of projection neurons from the substantia nigra (SN) to the DMS, aligned either with reward receipt or omission or prior to making a choice, had no significant effect on reversal learning. These findings are consistent with the notion that increased activity in the VTA\u2009\u2192\u2009NAcS pathway disrupts behavioural flexibility by impairing learning from negative reinforcement.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is primarily known as a motor disorder; however, its debilitating non-motor symptoms have a significant impact on patients' quality of life. The current standard treatment, l-DOPA, is used to relieve motor symptoms, but prolonged use is often associated with severe side effects. This creates an urgent need for effective alternatives targeting both motor and non-motor symptoms.\nOver the past decade, \nThis review compiles data on both motor and non-motor symptoms of PD, integrating results from preclinical animal studies and available clinical trials.\nPreclinical research has demonstrated promising results regarding CBD's potential benefits in PD; however, the total number of clinical trials is limited (with only seven studies to date), making it difficult to draw definitive conclusions on its efficacy.\nWhile preclinical findings suggest that CBD may have therapeutic potential in PD, the limited number of clinical trials highlights the need for further research. This review emphasizes the gaps that need to be addressed in future studies to fully understand CBD's role in treating both motor and non-motor symptoms of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Normative models of brain metrics based on large populations are extremely valuable for detecting brain abnormalities in patients with dementia, psychiatric, or developmental conditions. Here we present the first large-scale normative model of the brain's white matter (WM) microstructure derived from 18 international diffusion MRI (dMRI) datasets covering almost the entire lifespan (totaling N=51,830 individuals; age: 3-80 years). We extracted regional diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) metrics using a standardized analysis and quality control protocol, and used Hierarchical Bayesian Regression (HBR) to model the statistical distribution of derived WM metrics as a function of age and sex, while modeling the site effect. HBR overcomes known weaknesses of some data harmonization methods that simply scale and shift residual distributions at each site. To illustrate the method, we applied it to detect and visualize profiles of WM microstructural deviations in cohorts of patients with Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, Parkinson's disease and in carriers of 22q11.2 copy number variants, a rare neurogenetic condition that confers increased risk for psychosis. The resulting large-scale model offers a common reference to identify disease effects in individuals or groups, as well as to compare disorders and discover factors that influence these abnormalities.", 
    "abstract": "Dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS) is a rare but significant complication of Parkinson's disease (PD), affecting approximately 3-4% of patients on long-term dopamine replacement therapy (DRT). It is characterized by an addictive pattern of DRT use that exceeds the necessary dosages for managing motor symptoms. Patients may engage in self-medication, escalating their DRT doses beyond prescribed limits, and strongly resist attempts to reduce medication. This syndrome often leads to impulsive behaviors, severe dyskinesia, and notable disruptions in social and occupational functioning. DDS is associated with a range of neuropsychiatric symptoms, including punding behaviors, hallucinations, and delusions. The management of DDS presents significant challenges, requiring a delicate balance between adequate symptom control and preventing medication overuse. We present a case of a 68-year-old woman with DDS, highlighting her symptoms and the tailored management strategies we employed to address this challenging condition.", 
    "abstract": "Introduction Dopamine serves an essential function as a neurotransmitter, influencing the regulation of movement, cognitive processes, and emotional states. The identification of abnormal dopamine levels is critical for clinical diagnoses and scientific research, given its links to various disorders, including depression, schizophrenia, and Parkinson's disease. The distinctive electrochemical characteristics, stability, and broad bandgap of zinc sulfide (ZnS) nanostructures render them particularly fascinating. The hydrothermal method is recognized as an effective and economical approach for the fabrication of ZnS nanostructures, exhibiting a range of morphologies. Utilizing this method to create ZnS nanostructures leads to the formation of structures characterized by extensive surface areas, hierarchical designs, and improved electrochemical properties. Aim The objective is to examine the electrochemical characteristics of ZnS starfish-shaped nanostructures produced through the hydrothermal technique and to assess their viability as a sensing platform for dopamine detection. Materials and methods To synthesize ZnS nanoflowers, stoichiometric amounts of transition metal salts were prepared: 10 mM of Zn(NO", 
    "abstract": "Parkinsonism can be caused by a variety of factors, such as drugs, vascular disease, toxicity, infection, and autoimmune, neoplastic, metabolic and functional diseases. Parkinsonism is associated with both motor and nonmotor clinical symptoms. Notably, the accurate diagnosis of Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism remains challenging. Meningioma is the most common type of extraparenchymal brain tumor, which typically presents with headaches, focal symptoms and cranial nerve symptoms. Parkinsonism is a rare initial symptom of meningioma. The present report describes an unusual case of a 70-year-old man who presented with tremors, pill-rolling tremors and left-sided rigidity. In addition, the patient exhibited asymmetrical bradykinesia (left > right) and mild postural instability. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a homogeneously enhanced cerebral falx meningioma and dilated tortuous veins. Dopamine transporter single-photon emission computed tomography revealed decreased ", 
    "abstract": "Circadian rhythm disruption is typical in Parkinson's disease (PD) early stage, and it plays an important role in the prognosis of the treatment effect in the advanced stage of PD. There is growing evidence that circadian rhythm genes can influence development of PD. Therefore, this study explored specific regulatory mechanism of circadian genes (C-genes) in PD through bioinformatic approaches.\nDifferentially expressed genes (DEGs) between PD and control samples were identified from GSE22491 using differential expression analysis. The key model showing the highest correlation with PD was derived through WGCNA analysis. Then, DEGs, 1,288 C-genes and genes in key module were overlapped for yielding differentially expressed C-genes (DECGs), and they were analyzed for LASSO and SVM-RFE for yielding critical genes. Meanwhile, from GSE22491 and GSE100054, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) was implemented on critical genes to identify biomarkers, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was applied for the purpose of exploring pathways involved in biomarkers. Eventually, immune infiltrative analysis was applied for understanding effect of biomarkers on immune microenvironment, and therapeutic drugs which could affect biomarkers expressions were also predicted. Finally, we verified the expression of the genes by q-PCR.\nTotally 634 DEGs were yielded between PD and control samples, and MEgreen module had the highest correlation with PD, thus it was defined as key model. Four critical genes (AK3, RTN3, CYP4F2, and LEPR) were identified after performing LASSO and SVM-RFE on 18 DECGs. Through ROC analysis, AK3, RTN3, and LEPR were identified as biomarkers due to their excellent ability to distinguish PD from control samples. Besides, biomarkers were associated with Parkinson's disease and other functional pathways.\nThrough bioinformatic analysis, the circadian rhythm related biomarkers were identified (AK3, RTN3 and LEPR) in PD, contributing to studies related to PD treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Postural instability and gait disorder and cognitive dysfunction are common symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Scale assessment is frequently used in the clinic to evaluate PD, but this technique is limited by its lack of sensitivity to changes in disease progression and its difficulty in capturing subtle movements and changes in cognitive function. It is currently believed that high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can improve motor and cognitive dysfunction in patients with PD, though it remains controversial. Therefore, it is imperative to monitor and dynamically identify changes in postural instability and gait disorder, as well as those in cognitive dysfunction, in PD to develop targeted interventions. In this study, we observed the effect of high-frequency rTMS on gait disorders and cognitive functions in patients with PD by comparing data from wearable devices and eye-tracking devices before and after treatment.\nA total of 159 patients with PD were included in this study. A GYENNO MATRIX wearable gait analyzer was used to monitor the objective gait data (including the timed up-and-go, narrow-track, and turning tests), the Eyeknow eye-tracking evaluation system was used to monitor the patient's eye movement cognition data (including the smooth pursuit, pro-saccade, and anti-saccade tests), and gait and cognitive function-related scales, including the Tinetti Balance Scale, Tinetti Gait Scale, Berg Balance Scale, Mini-Mental State Examination, and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), were evaluated at the same time before and after high-frequency rTMS treatment.\nThe mean step length, mean stride velocity, stride length, and mean step frequency of patients with PD in the timed up-and-go test all increased compared with those before rTMS treatment, whereas the mean stride time and double support decreased. In the narrow-track test, the mean stride velocity increased and the mean stride time decreased. In the turning test, the turning left duration, turning right duration, mean duration, mean number of steps, and average step duration decreased, while the mean angular velocity increased after rTMS treatment. Compared with those before rTMS treatment, the latency period of patients with PD in overlapping saccades decreased, the completion time of overlapping saccades decreased, and the average saccade speed increased. In the anti-saccade test, the completion time decreased and the average saccade speed increased after rTMS treatment. Compared with those before rTMS treatment, the Tinetti Balance Scale, Tinetti Gait Scale, Berg Balance Scale, Mini-Mental State Examination, and MoCA scores increased, and the MoCA sub-items improved in terms of visual-spatial and executive function, language, abstraction, delayed recall, and orientation after rTMS treatment.\nHigh-frequency rTMS may be an effective therapy for improving gait disorders and cognitive functions in patients with PD.", 
    "results": "The mean step length, mean stride velocity, stride length, and mean step frequency of patients with PD in the timed up-and-go test all increased compared with those before rTMS treatment, whereas the mean stride time and double support decreased. In the narrow-track test, the mean stride velocity increased and the mean stride time decreased. In the turning test, the turning left duration, turning right duration, mean duration, mean number of steps, and average step duration decreased, while the mean angular velocity increased after rTMS treatment. Compared with those before rTMS treatment, the latency period of patients with PD in overlapping saccades decreased, the completion time of overlapping saccades decreased, and the average saccade speed increased. In the anti-saccade test, the completion time decreased and the average saccade speed increased after rTMS treatment. Compared with those before rTMS treatment, the Tinetti Balance Scale, Tinetti Gait Scale, Berg Balance Scale, Mini-Mental State Examination, and MoCA scores increased, and the MoCA sub-items improved in terms of visual-spatial and executive function, language, abstraction, delayed recall, and orientation after rTMS treatment.", 
    "abstract": "Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) has been widely applied and accepted in the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Despite numerous studies exploring the effects of DBS on the progression of neurodegenerative diseases and the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD), there is a limited number of articles summarizing this research. The purpose of this study is to investigate the current trends, hot topics, and potential in research surrounding DBS therapy for PD, as well as to anticipate the challenges of such research.\nWe searched the Web of Science Core Collection database (WoSCC) for DBS research literature related to PD published from January 2014 to January 2024, utilized CiteSpace, VOS viewer, the bibliometric online analysis platform, Scimago Graphica, Microsoft Excel 2021, and R software version 4.2.3 for data analysis. And we conducted quantitative research on publications, citations, journals, authors, countries, institutions, keywords, and references, visualized the results in network graphs.\nFrom 2014 to 2024, papers from 39 journals from 11 countries were among the top 100 cited. Most papers were published in Neurology, with the highest average citations per paper in Nature Neuroscience. The United States (US) contributed the most publications, followed by the United Kingdom (UK) and Germany. In terms of total publications, University College London (UCL) contributed the most papers. The primary classifications of articles were Clinical Neurology, Neurosciences, and Surgery. The top five keywords were subthalamic nucleus, DBS, PD, medical therapy, and basal ganglia. Cluster analysis indicates that DBS research focus on improving quality of life and applying computational models.\nThrough bibliometric analysis, researchers could quickly and clearly understand the hotspots and boundaries of their research field, thus guiding their research direction and scope to improve research efficiency and the quality of outcomes. Although studies indicate that DBS is currently a crucial method for treating advanced PD, in the long run, creating a personalized, low-cost treatment regimen with precise targeting and long-term efficacy poses a challenge.", 
    "abstract": "This article explores the diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) in general practice. It examines the subtypes of MCI and their specific diagnostic criteria for different neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, fronto-temporal dementia and cerebrovascular disorders. It highlights the preferential use of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) over the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) for detecting MCI. A MoCA score below the norm (< 26 points) warrants a more thorough diagnostic work-up, including a full neuropsychological assessment and possibly brain imaging.\nCet article explore le diagnostic du trouble neurocognitif mineur (Mild Cognitive Impairment, MCI) dans le cadre d\u2019une pratique m\u00e9dicale g\u00e9n\u00e9rale. Il examine les sous-types de MCI, leurs crit\u00e8res diagnostiques sp\u00e9cifiques pour diff\u00e9rentes conditions neurod\u00e9g\u00e9n\u00e9ratives telles que la maladie d\u2019Alzheimer, la maladie de Parkinson, les d\u00e9g\u00e9n\u00e9rescences frontotemporales et les troubles vasculaires c\u00e9r\u00e9braux. Il met en avant l\u2019utilisation pr\u00e9f\u00e9rentielle du Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) par rapport au Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) pour d\u00e9pister le MCI. Un score MoCA inf\u00e9rieur \u00e0 la norme (< 26 points) motive un bilan diagnostique plus approfondi, incluant une \u00e9valuation neuropsychologique compl\u00e8te et \u00e9ventuellement une imagerie c\u00e9r\u00e9brale.", 
    "abstract": "Despite the intensive research on gut microbiome-associated diseases over the past 20 years, pharmacological methods for effectively eliminating pathobionts remain unsatisfactory. This study investigated the therapeutic potential of bacteriophages against Enterococcus faecalis, in which bacterial tyrosine decarboxylase (TDC) converts orally administered levodopa (L-DOPA) to dopamine, in an MPTP mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). E. faecalis bacteriophages PBEF62, PBEF66, and PBEF67 (4\u2009\u00d7\u200910", 
    "abstract": "Pathological forms of \u03b1-synuclein contribute to synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease (PD). Most cases of PD arise from gene-environment interactions. Microbiome composition is altered in PD, and gut bacteria are causal to symptoms in animal models. We quantitatively profiled nearly 630 metabolites in the gut, plasma, and brain of \u03b1-synuclein-overexpressing (ASO) mice, compared to wild-type (WT) animals, and comparing germ-free (GF) to specific pathogen-free (SPF) animals (n\u2009=\u20095 WT-SPF; n\u2009=\u20096 ASO-SPF; n\u2009=\u20096 WT-GF; n\u2009=\u20096 ASO-GF). Many differentially expressed metabolites in ASO mice are also dysregulated in human PD patients, including amine oxides, bile acids and indoles. The microbial metabolite trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) strongly correlates from the gut to the plasma to the brain in mice, notable since TMAO is elevated in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid of PD patients. These findings uncover broad metabolomic changes that are influenced by the intersection of host genetics and microbiome in a mouse model of PD.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-Syn) deposition in the skin, and decreased sebum secretion due to epidermal dysfunction. However, the relationship between sebum secretion and autonomic neuropathies is unknown.\nUsing the medical records in our facility, we identified patients newly diagnosed with PD on admission from August 2020 to December 2023. We analyzed whether sebum secretory ability at multiple sites was associated with cardiac sympathetic nerve function that was assessed by cardiac \nForty patients were included. Their sebum secretion ability positively correlated with the ratio of the average pixel count in the heart to that in the mediastinum (H/M ratio) in the posterior neck, the anterior chest, the arms, and the abdomen. In the multiple regression analysis, those in the arms (\u03b2, 8.8; 95\u00a0% CI, 4.4-13.2; P\u00a0<\u00a00.001) and abdomen (\u03b2, 1.3; 95\u00a0% CI, 0.1-2.5; P\u00a0=\u00a00.032) were associated with the H/M ratio after controlling for age, sex, and UPDRS part III.\nThis study revealed an association between sebum secretion in the arms and the abdomen, and cardiac sympathetic nerve function in PD patients. The site of the sebum secretory disturbance associated with cardiac sympathetic nerves closely resembled the gradient of \u03b1-Syn deposition in the skin, corroborating its deposition pattern. Our findings suggest that noninvasive sebum measurement may serve as an adjunctive diagnostic tool of \u03b1-Syn deposition in the skin for PD and provide insights into sympathetic nerve damage alongside cardiac sympathetic nerve assessments.", 
    "abstract": "Current diagnosis and monitoring of Parkinson's disease (PD) is based on subjective clinical assessments. Objective measures of motor functioning could support clinical acumen. Computer vision (CV) technology is a promising contactless technique but requires further validation.\nTo investigate the performance of CV analysis of clinic-based videos of finger-tapping. Our goals were (i) to distinguish PD from healthy controls (HC), when compared to human raters, (ii) to measure the severity of bradykinesia, and (iii) detect ON/OFF medication state.\nVideos of thirty-one persons with PD and forty-nine HC were collected during clinical outpatient visits. Videos were analysed using CV to produce speed, amplitude, rhythm and composite bradykinesia measures. All videos were independently rated by three raters using the Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) and Modified Bradykinesia Rating Scale (MBRS). Twenty video pairs were conducted in ON and OFF states. Classification accuracy for PD/HC state and ON/OFF state were measured using the Area under Receiver Operating characteristic curve and a confusion matrix. CV and clinical measures were correlated using Spearman coefficients.\nCV classified disease state with higher accuracy than clinical raters (91\u00a0% sensitivity; 97\u00a0% specificity). CV measures of bradykinesia correlated significantly with clinical ratings: R\u00a0=\u00a00.740 for MDS-UPDRS, 0.715 for MBRS speed, 0.714 for amplitude and 0.504 for rhythm. CV classified ON/OFF state as accurately as clinical raters.\nCV can provide a valid, objective and contactless bradykinesia assessment based on clinically collected videos, which offers promise as a new clinical outcome, including in remote settings.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD), a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, assumes a more adverse prognosis when accompanied by rapid eye movement sleep disorder (RBD). Non-motor symptoms, particularly sleep and emotional disturbances, significantly impair patients' quality of life. This study aimed to investigate the neuroimaging underpinnings of PD-RBD using structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to explore the associations between these imaging biomarkers and non-motor symptoms.\nBrain scans were acquired from 33 PD patients without and 21 with probable RBD (PD-pRBD). Comparative analyses were performed to evaluate structural and functional alterations between the two groups. Additionally, the correlations between neuroimaging metrics and clinical assessment scales were assessed.\nPD-pRBD patients demonstrated more pronounced grey matter atrophy, particularly in the putamen and insula. Functional MRI revealed decreased amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) in the bilateral posterior cingulate cortex and left precuneus of PD-pRBD patients. Furthermore, reduced functional connectivity (FC) was observed in specific regions of the whole brain and within the default mode network (DMN) in PD-pRBD. Notably, a negative correlation was found between mean ALFF values in the left posterior cingulate cortex of PD-pRBD patients and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale scores.\nPD-pRBD is characterized by more severe grey matter loss and functional MRI abnormalities compared to PD alone. Dysfunction of the posterior cingulate cortex is implicated in more pronounced affective impairments, providing novel insights into the complex pathophysiology of PD-RBD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease psychosis, characterized by confusion, visual hallucinations, and delusions is a nightmare for the patients and caregivers. Classic neuroleptics aggravate the motor symptoms, hence the need for an effective atypical antipsychotic. Currently Pimavanserin is the only approved drug for Parkinson's disease psychosis (PDP), however it is not readily available. Clozapine with its excellent anti psychotic profile, without worsening of motor features, cost effectiveness and easy availability transcends all boundaries in improving the Quality of life in PD patients with psychosis. We describe an elderly patient with PDP with an excellent response to low dose clozapine.", 
    "abstract": "To evaluate the association of white matter hyperintensity (WMH) with dopamine transporter (DAT) availability in patients with early to mid-stage parkinson's disease (PD) and multiple system atrophy (MSA).\nThe clinical and imaging data of 55 patients were collected, including 38 PD and 17 MSA patients and the clinical features of the two groups were compared. DAT specific binding ratio (SBR) were compared between severe and non-severe WMH groups, and between PD and MSA groups. The relationships of WMH with DAT availability and basic clinical characteristics were analyzed.\nMultiple linear regression analysis showed that age was the only significant variable showing correlation WMH. Age was the only clinical variable significantly correlated with WMH in PD patients (coefficient for periventricular white matter hyperintensity: 0.430, P\u2009=\u20090.007; coefficient for deep white matter hyperintensity: 0.381, P\u2009=\u20090.018). There was no significant correlation between WMH and SBRs and age in MSA patients. The SBR of the caudate nucleus and anterior putamen was significantly lower in the severe WMH group of patients than in the non-severe WMH group (P\u2009<\u20090.05). The values of the caudate nucleus, anterior putamen, and anterior putamen/posterior putamen were significantly lower in PD patients with than without severe WMH (P\u2009<\u20090.05), and the damage to the striatal DAT in MSA patients with severe WMH was similar to the non-severe patients (P>0.05).\nPatients with PD and a high WMH score had lower DAT availability. WMH affected the availability of DAT in patients with early to mid-stage PD compared to MSA.", 
    "abstract": "To observe medication cost trends for 5 common neurologic conditions.\nWe quantified annual out-of-pocket (OOP) and total medication costs for patients seen by a neurologist with epilepsy, multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson disease (PD), peripheral neuropathy (PN), and dementia/Alzheimer's disease in a commercial claims database cross-sectionally from 2012 to 2021.\nWe identified 186,144 patients with epilepsy, 54,676 with MS, 45,909 with PD, 169,127 with PN, and 60,861 with dementia/Alzheimer. OOP costs for MS medications increased each year, by 217% on average. Branded epilepsy medications had higher OOP costs than generics. Decreases ranging from 48% to 80% in annual OOP costs of duloxetine, pregabalin, rasagiline, rivastigmine, and memantine were observed in the years after generic introduction.\nPreferentially selecting generic medications reduces OOP costs, other than for MS where costs continue to increase. Policy solutions, such as cost caps, are needed.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of this study was to determine the most efficient approaches to measuring the intelligibility of people with Parkinson's disease (PD) when considering the estimation method, listener experience, number of listeners, number of sentences, and the ways these factors may interact.\nSpeech-language pathologists (SLPs) and inexperienced listeners estimated the intelligibility of people with and without PD using orthographic transcription or a visual analog scale (VAS). Intelligibility estimates were based on 11 Speech Intelligibility Test sentences. We simulated all combinations of listeners and sentences to compare intelligibility estimates based on fewer listeners and sentences to a speaker-specific benchmark estimate based on the mean intelligibility across all sentences and listeners.\nIntelligibility estimates were closer to the benchmark (i.e., more accurate) when more listeners and sentences were included in the estimation process for transcription- and VAS-based estimates and for SLPs and inexperienced listeners. Differences between the benchmark and subset-based intelligibility estimates were, in some cases, smaller than the minimally detectable change in intelligibility for people with PD.\nThe intelligibility of people with PD can be measured more efficiently by reducing the number of listeners and/or sentences, up to a point, while maintaining the ability to detect change in this outcome. Clinicians and researchers may prioritize either fewer listeners or fewer sentences, depending on the specific constraints of their work setting. However, consideration must be given to listener experience and estimation method, as the effect of reducing the number of listeners and sentences varied with these factors.", 
    "abstract": "Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released by all cells and hold great promise as a class of biomarkers. This promise has led to increased interest in measuring EV proteins from both total EVs as well as brain-derived EVs in plasma. However, measuring cargo proteins in EVs has been challenging because EVs are present at low levels, and EV isolation methods are imperfect at separating EVs from free proteins. Thus, knowing whether a protein measured after EV isolation is truly inside EVs is difficult. In this study, we developed methods to measure whether a protein is inside EVs and quantify the ratio of a protein in EVs relative to total plasma. To achieve this, we combined a high-yield size-exclusion chromatography protocol with an optimized protease protection assay and Single Molecule Array (Simoa) digital enzyme-linked immunoassays (ELISAs) for ultrasensitive measurement of proteins inside EVs. We applied these methods to analyze \u03b1-synuclein and confirmed that a small fraction of the total plasma \u03b1-synuclein is inside EVs. Additionally, we developed a highly sensitive Simoa assay for phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein (phosphorylated at the Ser129 residue). We found enrichment in the phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein to total \u03b1-synuclein ratio inside EVs relative to outside EVs. Finally, we applied the methods we developed to measure total and phosphorylated \u03b1-synuclein inside EVs from Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia patient samples. This work provides a framework for determining the levels of proteins in EVs and represents an important step in the development of EV diagnostics for diseases of the brain, as well as other organs.", 
    "abstract": "Deficits in the processing and production of emotional cues are well documented in the Parkinson's disease (PD) literature; however, few have ventured to explore how impairments may impact emotional language use in this population, particularly beyond the word level. Emotional language is an important multidimensional manner of communicating one's wants and needs; thus, the current study sought to explore how various aspects of language production may be impacted by the emotionality of a stimulus.\nEighteen persons with PD and 22 healthy adults completed a constrained emotional sentence production task in which the affective target word was either a noun or a verb. Output was analyzed for fluency, grammaticality, completeness, and response initiation times. Cognitive (i.e., working memory [WM], inhibition, and switching) and mood (i.e., depression and apathy) measures were examined as factors influencing performance.\nIndividuals with PD produced fewer fluent responses than healthy controls. Furthermore, they had fewer grammatical responses in their production of negative sentences and exhibited reduced information completeness when producing sentences containing positive stimuli. Group differences could not be wholly attributed to individual differences in WM or apathy.\nOur results support those of others that document language production deficits in individuals with PD above and beyond those impairments that can be explained by the select cognitive abilities explored here. Moreover, the emotionality of the topic may impact various aspects of communicative competence in persons with PD. For instance, disease processes associated with degeneration of neural substrates important for processing negative stimuli may also impact the grammaticality of productions containing negatively valenced content. Thus, it is important to consider how individuals in this population communicate during emotional circumstances.\nhttps://doi.org/10.23641/asha.27289413.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, and recent evidence suggests that pathogenesis may be in part mediated by inflammatory processes, the molecular and cellular architectures of which are largely unknown. To identify and characterize selectively vulnerable brain cell populations in PD, we performed single-nucleus transcriptomics and unbiased proteomics to profile the prefrontal cortex from postmortem human brains of six individuals with late-stage PD and six age-matched controls. Analysis of nearly 80,000 nuclei led to the identification of eight major brain cell types, including elevated brain-resident T cells in PD, each with distinct transcriptional changes in agreement with the known genetics of PD. By analyzing Lewy body pathology in the same postmortem brain tissues, we found that \u03b1-synuclein pathology was inversely correlated with chaperone expression in excitatory neurons. Examining cell-cell interactions, we found a selective abatement of neuron-astrocyte interactions and enhanced neuroinflammation. Proteomic analyses of the same brains identified synaptic proteins in the prefrontal cortex that were preferentially down-regulated in PD. By comparing this single-cell PD dataset with a published analysis of similar brain regions in Alzheimer's disease (AD), we found no common differentially expressed genes in neurons but identified many shared differentially expressed genes in glial cells, suggesting that the disease etiologies, especially in the context of neuronal vulnerability, in PD and AD are likely distinct.", 
    "abstract": "The effects of seizure control on outcomes in persons with dementia (PWD) remain unclear. Our study aimed to investigate the impact of seizure control on mortality, function, cognition, and mood among PWD.\nThis longitudinal, multicenter study is based on 39 Alzheimer's disease centers (ADCs) in the United States from September 2005 to December 2021. PWD were grouped by seizure status into recurrent (seizures in the past year), remote (prior seizures but none in the past year), and no seizures (controls). The primary outcome was all-cause mortality among seizure groups. We used Weibull survival analysis to assess the mortality risks by seizure status after adjusting for age, sex, education, race, ethnicity, hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, degree of cognitive impairment, dominant Alzheimer's disease (AD) mutation, brain trauma, stroke, Parkinson's disease, alcohol abuse, and depression. Cognition (Clinical Dementia Rating), function (physical dependence and nursing home residence), day-to-day activities (Functional Assessment Scores), and mood (Geriatric Depression Scale) were compared among seizure groups after adjusting for dementia duration and age.\nAmong 26,501 participants, 374 (1.4%) had recurrent seizures and 510 (1.9%) had remote seizures. In multivariable survival analysis, recurrent seizures were associated with a higher mortality risk than remote and no seizures (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR], 95% confidence interval [95% CI]; recurrent aHR\u2009=\u20091.79, 95% CI\u2009=\u20091.51 to 2.12; remote aHR\u2009=\u20091.17, 95% CI\u2009=\u20090.98 to 1.38). Median time-to-death for recurrent, remote, and no seizures was 2.4, 4.0, and 4.7\u2009years, respectively. People with recurrent seizures had worse cognition, day-to-day function, and physical dependence than those with remote seizures and controls.\nPWD with poorly controlled recurrent seizures have worse mortality, functional, and cognitive outcomes than PWD with remote and no seizures. These findings underscore the need for timely identification and management of ongoing seizures in PWD. ANN NEUROL 2024.", 
    "abstract": "To investigate the effects of directional subthalamic deep brain stimulation (STN-dDBS) on gait and balance disorders, including freezing of gait (FOG), in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD).\nWe included 10 participants who underwent STN-DBS and presented severe preoperative FOG, in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study. We used segmented DBS electrodes to investigate whether directing the predicted volume of tissue activated (VTA) to overlap the central STN preferentially improved gait and balance disorders compared to directional DBS applied in the more posterior STN (sensorimotor). We also assessed non-directional (ring-mode) STN-DBS. Our primary outcome was gait and balance control measured using instrumented gait recordings. Each patient had a pre-operative structural and diffusion-weighted imaging to model individual VTAs and to examine cortico-subthalamic connectivity. We used linear mixed-effects models to contrast the effects of central STN-dDBS, posterior STN-dDBS, and ring-mode STN-DBS.\nCentral STN-dDBS produced significantly better improvement in gait and balance control compared to posterior STN-dDBS (p\u2009=\u20090.027), with fewer FOG episodes (p\u2009<\u20090.001). Conversely, ring-mode STN-DBS resulted in worsened postural control compared to central STN-dDBS (p\u2009=\u20090.009). The cortico-subthalamic connectivity with the STN VTAs involved mostly primary sensorimotor, premotor, and medial frontal cortices, with a higher overall cortico-STN connectivity with ring-mode STN-DBS.\nCentral STN-dDBS represents the best option to improve gait and balance disorders in PD patients, including FOG. Our findings raise the possibility of reprogramming STN-DBS toward the central area in selected patients with disabling FOG and/or postural instability after surgery. ANN NEUROL 2024.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative condition affecting multiple sensorimotor and cognitive systems. The \nRelative glucose metabolism was significantly different in \nFDG PET reveals abnormalities in relative regional brain glucose metabolism in ", 
    "abstract": "Orthostatic hypotension is common in people with Parkinson's disease (PD) due to autonomic dysfunction and medication use and can have a significant negative impact on quality of life. Pharmacological treatment is often complicated due to complex blood pressure regulation problems. This case report presents a patient whose symptoms of orthostatic intolerance were successfully treated with the non-pharmacological method of head-up tilt sleeping (HUTS).\nA 69-year-old man with PD and prominent autonomic failure received recommendation from the neurologist to use HUTS to battle orthostatic intolerance, of which complaints were worst in the early morning. The patient noted a marked improvement of the orthostatic intolerance after a period in which he slowly step-by-step inclined the bed to an angle just over 10\u00b0. When ceasing HUTS for a brief period, complaints of orthostatic intolerance immediately returned and the patient returned to tilted sleeping right away. After a follow-up of 3 months, the patient did not report orthostatic intolerance during a standing test.\nThis case illuminates that, despite difficulties intrinsic to this method, whole-body HUTS can ameliorate orthostatic intolerance and improve the daily life of people with advanced movement disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) is a compound synthesized by marine phytoplankton that contributes to the oceanic sulfur cycle. Interestingly, DMSP has also been found in algal species and several terrestrial plants, forming part of the global sulfur cycle. However, compared to its role in the marine environment, the impact of DMSP on terrestrial ecosystems remains relatively unexplored. In this study, DMSP was shown to promote longevity and prevent age-associated functional decline in ", 
    "abstract": "Cognitive impairments, which can be caused by neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disease, represent a growing global health crisis with far-reaching implications for individuals, families, healthcare systems, and economies worldwide. Notably, neurodegenerative-induced cognitive impairment often presents a different pattern and severity compared to cerebrovascular-induced cognitive impairment. With the development of computational technology, machine learning techniques have developed rapidly, which offers a powerful tool in radiomic analysis, allowing a more comprehensive model that can handle high-dimensional, multivariate data compared to the traditional approach. Such models allow the prediction of the disease development, as well as accurately classify disease from overlapping symptoms, therefore facilitating clinical decision making. This review will focus on the application of machine learning-based radiomics on cognitive impairment caused by neurogenerative and cerebrovascular disease. Within the neurodegenerative category, this review primarily focuses on Alzheimer's disease, while also covering other conditions such as Parkinson's disease, Lewy body dementia, and Huntington's disease. In the cerebrovascular category, we concentrate on poststroke cognitive impairment, including ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, with additional attention given to small vessel disease and moyamoya\u00a0disease. We also review the specific challenges and limitations when applying machine learning radiomics, and provide our suggestion to overcome those limitations towards the end, and discuss what could be done for future clinical use.", 
    "abstract": "Ferroptosis represents an iron", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "This article examines the surgical techniques used for the treatment of neuralgia and dystonia in Greece during the late 19th to the middle of the twentieth century. It emphasizes on the Greek contribution to neurosurgery.\nThe aim of this study is achieved by examining unpublished archives as well as historical documents collected from both the National Library of Greece and the Library of the Hellenic Parliament.\nGreek medicine of the nineteenth century emerged through the practice of Greek physicians who have studied abroad. Many important figures on surgery, like Theodoros Aretaios, Nikolaos Taptas and Konstantinos Mermigas attempted myotomies, neurectomies, trasoraphies, and injections according the European protocols, though introducing some variants on well established procedures. This article also refers to the early stereotactic neurosurgery in Greece, especially in the treatment of Parkinson's Disease and extrapyramidal syndromes by Aggelos Karakalos, ultimately contributing toward a better understanding of the evolution of Greek surgery, highlighting its pivotal role in the international development of neurosurgical techniques. Greek school of surgery avoided brutal operations like trephination and proved worthy among most advanced school of the 19\nNeuralgias and dystonias constituted for the physicians of the past a riddle connected with the mystery of the central and peripheral neural system. Surgical procedures were proposed, finding ways of implication mainly in the cases of neuralgias. Gradually drug administration of simple substances like alcohol demonstrated some results. The study of Greek medical archives dated back to 19", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases are regarded as gradual, incurable conditions with an insidious onset. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are two of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases reported globally. Developing effective treatment strategies for neurodegenerative diseases has remained a primary objective and a huge challenge for researchers. The therapeutic medications that are now approved for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases merely treat the symptoms; the underlying pathology is not addressed. Therefore, the emergence of novel disease-modifying therapeutic modalities such as immunotherapy has opened a new path in developing effective treatments for neurogenerative diseases. Compared to other types of subunit active vaccines, virus-like particles (VLPs) are considerably more immunogenic as they present dense and repetitive viral antigen epitopes on their surface, which can trigger both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. They are also a much safer option than the traditional inactivated and live-attenuated vaccines since they are devoid of viral genomes and are, therefore, non-pathogenic and non-infectious. Researchers have turned their attention to VLPs as an active immunotherapy candidate for AD due to the lessons learned from the AN1792 trial. Studies have shown that they effectively induce anti-A\u03b2, anti-tau, and anti-\u03b1-Synuclein antibodies while avoiding T-cell-related immune reactions in animal models of AD and PD. This review compiles the findings of preclinical animal model studies and clinical investigations on VLP-based vaccines for neurogenerative diseases thus far. The technical limitations and potential difficulties associated with the future application of VLP-based vaccines in patients with neurodegenerative diseases have also been covered.", 
    "abstract": "Luteolin is a natural flavonoid and its neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects have been confirmed to mitigate neurodegeneration. Despite these findings, the underlying mechanisms responsible for these effects remain unclear. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is widely distributed in microglia and plays a pivotal role in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Here studies are outlined that aimed at determining the mechanisms responsible for the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective actions of luteolin using a rodent model of Parkinson's disease (PD) and specifically focusing on the role of TLR4 in this process.\nThe mouse model of PD used in this experiment was established through a single injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Mice were then subsequently randomly allocated to either the luteolin or vehicle-treated group, then motor performance and dopaminergic neuronal injury were evaluated. BV2 microglial cells were treated with luteolin or vehicle saline prior to LPS challenge. MRNA expression of microglial specific marker ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (\nLuteolin treatment induced functional improvements and alleviated dopaminergic neuronal loss in the PD model. Luteolin inhibited apoptosis and promoted cell survival in PC12 cells. Luteolin treatment shifted microglial M1/M2 polarization towards an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype both \nLuteolin restrained dopaminergic degeneration ", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative dementias and related diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Parkinson's disease have no fundamental cure yet. Degenerative proteins begin to accumulate before the onset of the symptoms of these diseases, and the early detection of these symptoms can lead to early therapeutic intervention. Therefore, early and simpler diagnostic methods are required. This review focuses on blood biomarkers, which are less expensive and easier to use than cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and diagnostic imaging. A variety of approaches exist for establishing diagnostic methods for neurodegenerative dementias using blood biomarkers, such as disease differentiation using a single molecule, methods that combine multiple biomarkers, studies that search for important markers by comprehensively analyzing many molecules, and methods that combine other data. Finally, we discuss the future prospects for blood biomarker research based on the characteristics of each approach.", 
    "abstract": "Uncaria rhynchophylla (Miq.) Miq. ex Havil. (UR), a traditional Chinese medicinal plant, plays an active role in neuroprotection. Clinical medication and modern pharmacological studies have proved the efficacy of UR against Parkinson's disease (PD), with alkaloids being recognized as the main bioactive components. But the therapeutic effect and mechanism of U. rhynchophylla alkaloid extract (URA) against PD need further exploration.\nThe study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect and potential mechanism of URA on PD.\nLC-MS methodology was used to evaluate the chemical constituents of URA. The anti-PD activity of URA in vivo was measured on the mouse and rat models of PD. Neuroprotective effect of URA on PC12\u00a0cells was measured by MTT assay. Dopamine (DA) and its metabolites were detected by LC-MS for probing the protection ability on dopaminergic neurons. The differentially expressed proteins between model group and URA administrated group were analyzed by proteomics, suggesting oxidative phosphorylation as possible pathway of URA. Considering the critical role of mitochondria in oxidative phosphorylation, JC-1 staining, MitoSOX staining, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observation and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels detection were used to analyze the effects of URA on mitochondrial morphology and function. Biolayer interferometry (BLI) was used to search for the possible UCHL1-bonding compounds in URA.\nURA significantly mitigated the behavioural defects by improving coordination, shortening the time to climb down the whole pole (T-LA) and increasing the forelimbs' muscle strength of MPTP-induced PD mice and 6-OHDA-induced PD rats. In addition, URA improved tyrosine hydroxylase expression in dopaminergic neurons by immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining, and thus increased the neurotransmitter levels of DA and relevant metabolites. Furthermore, URA promoted mitophagy as reflected by a significant decrease in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, an increase in ATP levels and clearance of damaged mitochondria. Subsequently, Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase 1 (UCHL1), which is associated with the mitochondrial dysfunction in PD, is suggested to be a promising target based on the proteomics result, and proved by the blocked protective effects of URA by UCHL1 inhibitor. Furthermore, hirsuteine (HTE) was identified as a potential active compound of URA binding to UCHL1 by BLI, and the binding capacity and site were verified by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and molecular docking.\nThis work demonstrates that URA exerts effective neuroprotective activity against PD via activation of mitophagy with the involvement of UCHL1, and HTE may be a potential active compound of URA.", 
    "abstract": "Detecting cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) is challenging due to diverse manifestations and outdated diagnostic criteria. Cognitive screening tools, as Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), are adopted worldwide, but despite several cutoffs has been proposed for PD, no consensus has been reached, hindered by limited sample sizes, lack of validation, and inconsistent age- and education-adjustments.\nDetermine the optimal MMSE and MoCA cutoffs in a large PD cohort, spanning from normal cognition (PD-NC), mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) to dementia (PDD), and develop a decision tree model to assist physicians in cognitive workups.\nOur retrospective Italian multicenter study involves 1780 PD, cognitively diagnosed with a level-II assessment: PD-NC(n\u00a0=\u00a0700), PD-MCI(n\u00a0=\u00a0706), and PDD(n\u00a0=\u00a0374). Optimal cutoffs (for raw scores) were determined through ROC analysis. Then, a machine learning approach-decision trees-was adopted to validate and analyze the possible inclusion of other relevant clinical features.\nThe decision tree model selected as primary feature a MMSE cutoff \u226424 to predict dementia, and a score\u00a0\u2264\u00a027 for PD-MCI. To enhance PD-MCIvs.PD-NC accuracy, it also recommends including a MoCA score\u00a0\u2264\u00a022 for PD-MCI, and\u00a0>\u00a022 for PD-NC. Age and education were not selected as relevant features for the cognitive workup. Both MoCA and MMSE cutoffs exhibited high sensitivity and specificity in detecting PD cognitive statues.\nFor the first time, a clinical decision tree model based on robust MMSE and MoCA cutoffs has been developed, allowing to diagnose PD-MCI and/or PDD with a high accuracy and short administration time.", 
    "abstract": "F53B (6:2 chlorinated polyfluorinated ether sulfonate), a substitute for perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), is widely used as a chromium mist inhibitor in the electroplating industry. However, significant concern has arisen owing to its biological toxicity. Several studies on F53B toxicity in mammals have focused on hepatotoxicity, immunotoxicity, developmental toxicity, and reproductive toxicity, while its neurotoxic effects, especially in relation to neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD), remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the neurotoxic effects of F53B on dopaminergic neurons and explored its potential risk associated with PD in a cellular model. Potential target prediction and validation experiments demonstrated that F53B induced apoptosis in dopaminergic neurons. We also discovered that F53B triggered oxidative stress and inflammatory responses, and stimulated nitric oxide (NO) generation in the PD cellular model. Subsequently, untargeted metabolomics and lipidomics approaches were integrated to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the response of dopaminergic neurons to F53B exposure. The results suggested that F53B disrupted arginine and proline metabolism, energy metabolism, and caused lipid dysregulation, particularly promoting the hydrolysis of sphingomyelin (SM) into ceramide (Cer). Overall, this study provides evidence that F53B exposure could increase the potential risk of PD and offers novel insights into its neurotoxicity mechanisms.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor dysfunctions and nonmotor symptoms. Current treatments do not alter disease progression, highlighting the need for alternative therapies. Music, dance, and mindfulness meditation have shown the potential to improve symptoms and quality of life in patients with PD.\nThis study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of dance or music and meditation on PD progression, cognitive functions, mood, behavior, and caregiver burden.\nThis study is a single-blinded, longitudinal, parallel, randomized controlled trial. The participants consist of 30 patients with mild to moderate PD residing in Mumbai, India, who can physically participate in the activities. The exclusion criteria include advanced PD, severe balance issues, age >80 years, and other movement disorders. Participants in the intervention group will engage in dance or music sessions and guided meditation thrice weekly for 6 months. The control group will continue their usual activities and medication. The primary outcome is the progression of PD symptoms, measured using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale I-III, and quality of life, measured using the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39. The secondary outcomes include cognitive functions (Mini-Mental State Examination), mood (Beck Depression Inventory and Parkinson Anxiety Scale), mobility (timed up and go and Berg Balance Test), behavioral disorders (Questionnaire for Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders in Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale), and caregiver burden (Zarit Burden Interview and Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-Carer).\nData collection was completed in February 2024, with 28 participants finishing the study (intervention group: n=15, 54% and control group: n=13, 46%). Data analysis is underway, with results expected to be published in December 2024.\nThis study aims to provide significant insights into the effectiveness of dance or music and meditation in improving the quality of life and slowing the progression of PD. The findings are anticipated to support using these nonpharmaceutical therapies as complementary approaches to managing PD.\nCTRI/2023/03/051064; https://tinyurl.com/2xdus53j.\nDERR1-10.2196/59018.", 
    "abstract": "This study explores the therapeutic potential of three proaporphine alkaloids-cissamaline, cissamanine, and cissamdine, which were recently isolated from Cissampelos capensis L.f., against Parkinson's disease (PD). Using computational techniques, we investigated their efficacy as inhibitors of a key protein in PD. ADMET analysis demonstrated that these alkaloids conform to the Lipinski, Pfizer, Golden Triangle, and GSK rules, indicating favorable safety, oral bioavailability, and a high probability of passing the human intestinal and blood-brain barriers. They were neither substrates nor inhibitors of any CYP enzymes tested, indicating minimal metabolic interference and an enhanced safety profile. Molecular docking studies revealed strong binding energies with MAO-B, PD's target. MD simulations supported these findings, showing stable interactions with MAO-B, while Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations highlighted the electrophilic nature of cissamanine, enhancing its potential as an effective inhibitor. These results advocate further in vitro and in vivo studies to evaluate their potential as PD therapeutics.", 
    "abstract": "Magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound (MRgFUS) has been increasingly performed in recent years as a minimally invasive treatment of essential tremor and tremor-dominant Parkinson disease. One of the side effects after treatment is dysgeusia. Some centers use tractography to facilitate the treatment planning. However, there have been no reports of identifying gustatory tracts so far. Our aim was to investigate the technical feasibility of isolating and visualizing the gustatory tracts, as well as to explore the relationship between the gustatory tract and the MRgFUS lesion using actual patient data.\nWe used 20 randomly selected individuals from the Human Connectome Project database to perform tractography of the gustatory tracts. We defined region of interest as the dorsal region of the brainstem, Brodmann area 43 associated with taste perception, and a sphere with a 3-mm radius centered around the ventral intermediate nucleus in the anterior commissure-posterior commissure plane. We also examined the position of the gustatory tract in relation with other tracts, including the medial lemniscus, the pyramidal tract, and the dentatorubrothalamic tract. In addition, using the data of real patients with essential tremor, we investigated the distance between MRgFUS lesions and the gustatory tract and its association with the development of dysgeusia.\nWe delineated a mean of 15 streamlines of the gustatory tracts per subject in each hemisphere. There was no statistical difference in the localization of the gustatory tracts between the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The gustatory tract was located anteromedial to the medial lemniscus and posteromedial to the dentatorubrothalamic tract in the anterior commissure-posterior commissure plane. The distance from the MRgFUS lesion to the gustatory tract was significantly shorter in the case where dysgeusia occurred compared with nondysgeusia cases (P-value: .0068).\nThe thalamic gustatory tracts can be reliably visualized using tractography.", 
    "abstract": "Metabolic syndrome (MetS) manifests resembling pathophysiological mechanisms with Parkinson's disease (PD). Current research on the overall population has emphasized MetS as a freestanding risk factor for cognition. This research aims to explore the impact of MetS on cognition in Parkinson's patients.\nWe involved subjects identified as having early-stage PD patients. The MetS was diagnosed dependent on parameters overviewed in the National Cholesterol Education Program's Adult Treatment Panel III. The clinical severity and stages in patients with PD were dependent on the disease rating scales. The cognition was evaluated by the Turk\u0131sh version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale (MoCA-TR). The cases were categorized according to cognitive failure: mild cognitive impairment in PD (PD-MCI), and PD dementia (PDD).\nMetabolic syndrome was present in 39.6% of the participants. 22.0% of patients were in the normal cognition, 29.1% in the PD-MCI group, and 48.9% in the PD-D group. The cognitive scores in patients with MetS is considerably lower than MetS negative group. A statistically notable inverse association was detected between fasting blood glucose levels and the visual-spatial/executive functions, naming, language, and orientation scores. The multivariate logistic regression analysis showed individuals with MetS were found to have an 11.308 times higher risk of PD-D (odds ratio [OR]: 11,3, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.61-79.2 ).\nWe discerned the occurrence of MetS in PD raises the possibility of advancing dementia. This suggests that considering MetS in this patient group could contribute to the effective management of dementia.", 
    "abstract": "Neuroinflammation is increasingly recognized as a pivotal factor in the development and progression of neurodegenerative disorders. While correlations between inflammatory cytokines and these diseases are documented, the definitive causal dynamics remain to be elucidated. We explored the causal association between 91 circulating inflammatory cytokines and Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), multiple sclerosis (MS) and Parkinson's disease (PD) through Mendelian randomization analysis. Leveraging genetic variants from the most comprehensive genome-wide association studies (GWAS) available for these cytokines, AD, ALS, MS and PD, we sought to uncover the causality. Our study validated a causal influence of genetically determined cytokine levels on the susceptibility to AD, with notable cytokines including C-X-C motif chemokine 1 (OR\u2009=\u20090.9993, p\u2009=\u20090.0424), Interleukin-18 (OR\u2009=\u20090.9994, p\u2009=\u20090.0186), Leukaemia inhibitory factor receptor (OR\u2009=\u20090.9993, p\u2009=\u20090.0122) and Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (OR\u2009=\u20090.9992, p\u2009=\u20090.0026) in risk attenuation. Additionally, a positive causal relationship was identified between two cytokines-C-C motif chemokine 19 (OR\u2009=\u20091.0005, p\u2009=\u20090.0478) and Fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand (OR\u2009=\u20091.0005, p\u2009=\u20090.0210)-and AD incidence. Conversely, transforming growth factor-alpha (OR\u2009=\u20090.8630, p\u2009=\u20090.0298), CD40L receptor (OR\u2009=\u20090.7737, p\u2009=\u20091.1265E-09) and Interleukin-12 subunit beta (OR\u2009=\u20090.8987, p\u2009=\u20090.0333) showed inverse associations with ALS, MS and PD, respectively. The consistency observed in various MR analyses, alongside sensitivity analysis, underscored the absence of horizontal pleiotropy, thus supporting our causal findings. This study reveals, for the first time, a genetically anchored causal nexus between levels of circulating inflammatory cytokines and the risk of neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Speech is a complex behavior that can be used to study unique contributions of the basal ganglia to motor control in the human brain. Computational models suggest that the basal ganglia encode either the phonetic content or the sequence of speech elements. To explore this question, we investigated the relationship between phoneme and sequence features of a spoken syllable triplet and the firing rate of subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons recorded during the implantation of deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Patients repeated aloud a random sequence of three consonant-vowel (CV) syllables in response to audio cues. Single-unit extracellular potentials were sampled from the sensorimotor STN; a total of 227 unit recordings were obtained from the left STN of 25 subjects (4 females). Of these, 113 (50%) units showed significant task-related increased firing and 53 (23%) showed decreased firing (", 
    "abstract": "The neuromuscular circuit mechanisms of freezing of gait in Parkinson's disease have received little study. Technological progress enables researchers chronically to sense local field potential activity of the basal ganglia in patients while walking. To study subthalamic activity and the circuit processes of supraspinal contributions to spinal motor integration, we recorded local field potentials, surface EMG of antagonistic leg muscles and gait kinematics in patients while walking and freezing. To evaluate the specificity of our findings, we controlled our findings to internally generated volitional stops. We found specific activation-deactivation abnormalities of oscillatory activity of the subthalamic nucleus both before and during a freeze. Furthermore, we were able to show with synchronization analyses that subthalamo-spinal circuits entrain the spinal motor neurons to a defective timing and activation pattern. The main neuromuscular correlates when turning into freezing were as follows: (i) disturbed reciprocity between antagonistic muscles; (ii) increased co-contraction of the antagonists; (iii) defective activation and time pattern of the gastrocnemius muscle; and (iv) increased subthalamo-muscular coherence with the gastrocnemius muscles before the freeze. Beyond the pathophysiological insights into the supraspinal mechanisms contributing to freezing of gait, our findings have potential to inform the conceptualization of future neurorestorative therapies.", 
    "abstract": "People with central neurological disease or injury have a much higher risk of both faecal incontinence (FI) and constipation than the general population. There is often a fine line between the two symptoms, with management intended to ameliorate one risking precipitating the other. Bowel problems are observed to be the cause of much anxiety and may reduce quality of life in these people. Current bowel management is largely empirical, with a limited research base. The review is relevant to individuals with any disease directly and chronically affecting the central nervous system (post-traumatic, degenerative, ischaemic or neoplastic), such as multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, cerebrovascular disease, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2001 and subsequently updated in 2003, 2006 and 2014.\nTo assess the effects of conservative, physical and surgical interventions for managing FI and constipation in people with a neurological disease or injury affecting the central nervous system.\nWe searched the Cochrane Incontinence Specialised Register (searched 27 March 2023), which includes searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process, MEDLINE Epub Ahead of Print, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP as well as handsearching of journals and conference proceedings; and all reference lists of relevant articles.\nWe included randomised, quasi-randomised (where allocation is not strictly random), cross-over and cluster-randomised trials evaluating any type of conservative, physical or surgical intervention against placebo, usual care or no intervention for the management of FI and constipation in people with central neurological disease or injury.\nAt least two review authors independently assessed the risk of bias in eligible trials using Cochrane's 'Risk of bias' tool and independently extracted data from the included trials using a range of prespecified outcome measures. We produced summary of findings tables for our main outcome measures and assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE.\nWe included 25 studies with 1598 participants. The studies were generally at high risk of bias due to lack of blinding of participants and personnel to the intervention. Half of the included studies were also at high risk of bias in terms of selective reporting. Outcomes were often reported heterogeneously across studies, making it difficult to pool data. We did not find enough evidence to be able to analyse the effects of interventions on individual central neurological diseases. Additionally, very few studies reported on the primary outcomes of self-reported improvement in FI or constipation, or Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score. Conservative interventions compared with usual care, no active treatment or placebo Thirteen studies assessed this comparison. The interventions included assessment-based nursing, holistic nursing, probiotics, psyllium, faecal microbiota transplantation, and a stepwise protocol of increasingly invasive evacuation methods. Conservative interventions may result in a large improvement in faecal incontinence (standardised mean difference (SMD) -1.85, 95% confidence interval (CI) -3.47 to -0.23; 3 studies; n = 410; low-certainty evidence). We interpreted SMD \u2265 0.80 as a large effect. It was not possible to pool all data from studies that assessed improvement in constipation, but the evidence suggested that conservative interventions may improve constipation symptoms (data not pooled; 8 studies; n = 612; low-certainty evidence). Conservative interventions may lead to a reduction in mean time taken on bowel care (data not pooled; 5 studies; n = 526; low-certainty evidence). The evidence is uncertain about the effects of conservative interventions on condition-specific quality of life and adverse events. Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score was not reported. Physical therapy compared with usual care, no active treatment or placebo Twelve studies assessed this comparison. The interventions included massage therapy, standing, osteopathic manipulative treatment, electrical stimulation, transanal irrigation, and conventional physical therapy with visceral mobilisation. Physical therapies may make little to no difference to self-reported faecal continence assessed using the St Mark's Faecal Incontinence Score, where the minimally important difference is five, or the Cleveland Constipation Score (MD -2.60, 95% CI -4.91 to -0.29; 3 studies; n = 155; low-certainty evidence). Physical therapies may result in a moderate improvement in constipation symptoms (SMD -0.62, 95% CI -1.10 to -0.14; 9 studies; n = 431; low-certainty evidence). We interpreted SMD \u2265 0.5 as a moderate effect. However, physical therapies may make little to no difference in Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score as the minimally important difference for this tool is 3 (MD -1.94, 95% CI -3.36 to -0.51; 7 studies; n = 358; low-certainty evidence). We are very uncertain about the effects of physical therapies on the time spent on bowel care, condition-specific quality of life and adverse effects (all very low-certainty evidence). Surgical interventions compared with usual care, no active treatment or placebo No studies were found for surgical interventions that met the inclusion criteria for this review.\nThere remains little research on this common and, for patients, very significant issue of bowel management. The available evidence is almost uniformly of low methodological quality. The clinical significance of some of the research findings presented here is difficult to interpret, not least because each intervention has only been addressed in individual trials, against control rather than compared against each other, and the interventions are very different from each other. Understanding whether there is a clinically-meaningful difference from the results of available trials is largely hampered by the lack of uniform outcome measures. This is due to an absence of core outcome sets, and development of these needs to be a research priority to allow studies to be compared directly. Some studies used validated constipation, incontinence or condition-specific measures; however, others used unvalidated analogue scales to report effectiveness. Some studies did not use any patient-reported outcomes and focused on physiological outcome measures, which is of relatively limited significance in terms of clinical implementation. There was evidence in favour of some conservative interventions, but these findings need to be confirmed by larger, well-designed controlled trials, which should include evaluation of the acceptability of the intervention to patients and the effect on their quality of life.", 
    "abstract": "Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare and fatal neurodegenerative disorder for which there are currently no disease-modifying treatments. Recent trials of potential therapies had durations of 12\u2009months, which may be insufficient because of nonrandom missingness due to death. Longer durations, incorporating PSP Rating Scale and survival, can reduce the potential for type II error. Selecting efficacy measures more sensitive to disease modification may facilitate identification of treatment effect.\nThe objective of this study was to evaluate the simulated phase 3 PSP trial assessing the effect of disease-modifying intervention on a novel combined primary endpoint comprising function (PSP Rating Scale) and survival, the Combined Assessment of Function and Survival (CAFS), and to determine operating characteristics of the CAFS.\nTo simulate PSP progression in the trial population, we developed models of PSP Rating Scale and survival using data from published clinical studies. These models were used to define operating characteristics of the CAFS for use in a phase 3 trial.\nThe sample size determined (N\u2009=\u2009384; 1:1 randomization) would provide >80% power to detect significant treatment effects on the CAFS compared with placebo. The CAFS provides good operating characteristics and increased power to detect moderate treatment effects on the PSP Rating Scale. We propose a trial design allowing potential detection of treatment effects at a preplanned interim analysis after participants complete 12\u2009months of treatment, with assessment of effects of treatment (\u226424\u2009months) on survival.\nUse of the CAFS could provide a comprehensive and robust estimate of the clinical benefit of future therapies. \u00a9 2024 UCB. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "A hallmark of Parkinson disease (PD) is a progressive degeneration of neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, hypothalamus, and thalamus. Although the exact etiology of irreversible neuronal degeneration is unclear, a growing body of experimental evidence indicates that PD could be triggered by the abrupt aggregation of \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-Syn), a small membrane protein that is responsible for cell vesicle trafficking. Phospholipids uniquely alter the rate of \u03b1-Syn aggregation and, consequently, change the cytotoxicity of \u03b1-Syn oligomers and fibrils. However, the role of cholesterol in the aggregation of \u03b1-Syn remains unclear. In this study, we used ", 
    "abstract": "CVN424 is a GPR6 inverse agonist that provides selective pharmacological control of the indirect striatopallidal pathway. We assessed the safety and efficacy of CVN424 as an adjunctive treatment to levodopa for reducing OFF-time in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) experiencing motor-fluctuations.\nThis was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study conducted at 21 sites across the United States to evaluate two doses of CVN424 (NCT04191577). Patients with PD (Hoehn and Yahr stages 2-4) who were on a stable dose of levodopa and experiencing \u22652\u00a0h of daily OFF-time were randomised (1:1:1) to receive either once-daily CVN424 (50\u00a0mg or 150\u00a0mg) or placebo for a 28-day treatment period. The primary endpoints were safety and tolerability. The key secondary endpoint was the change from baseline to Day 27 in OFF-time.\nThe study was conducted from December 23, 2019, to October 14, 2021. Out of 198 participants screened, 141 eligible participants were randomised to one of the three treatment groups (n\u00a0=\u00a047 per group), and 127 participants completed the 28-day treatment period. The most common treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were headache (2% with CVN424 50\u00a0mg, 9% with CVN424 150\u00a0mg, and 2% with placebo) and nausea (4% with CVN424 50\u00a0mg, 6% with CVN424 150\u00a0mg and 2% with placebo). No serious treatment-related adverse events were reported. On Day 27, the mean\u00a0\u00b1\u00a0standard deviation (SD) change from baseline in daily OFF-time was\u00a0-1.3\u00a0\u00b1\u00a03.0\u00a0h in the CVN424 50\u00a0mg group,\u00a0-1.6\u00a0\u00b1\u00a02.5\u00a0h in the CVN424 150\u00a0mg group, and\u00a0-0.5\u00a0\u00b1\u00a02.9\u00a0h in the placebo group. The placebo-adjusted LS mean\u00a0\u00b1\u00a0standard error (SE) treatment difference was significant for the CVN424 150\u00a0mg dose (1.3\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.56\u00a0h, [95 CI%\u00a0-2.41 to\u00a0-0.19], nominal p\u00a0=\u00a00.02).\nTreatment with CVN424 was safe and well-tolerated. Despite the short study duration and small sample size, the 150\u00a0mg CVN424 dose provided a clinically meaningful reduction in daily OFF-time. This study supports the development of CVN424 for the treatment of PD.\nCerevance.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with complex etiology. Emerging evidence suggests that diet may play a role in PD risk, progression, and symptom management. However, the relationship between dietary factors and PD remains poorly understood. This systematic review aimed to synthesize and evaluate the current evidence on the associations between dietary patterns, specific nutrients, and PD risk, progression, and symptom management. We conducted a comprehensive literature search in major databases for studies published up to 2024. Eligible studies included prospective cohorts, case-control studies, randomized controlled trials, and cross-sectional analyses investigating the relationship between diet and PD. Data extraction and quality assessment were performed independently by two reviewers. Eleven studies met the inclusion criteria. Adherence to healthy dietary patterns, particularly those rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and fish, was consistently associated with reduced PD risk. Conversely, Western-style diets high in processed foods and red meat were linked to increased risk. Specific nutrients, including antioxidants and vitamins K and C, showed potential neuroprotective effects, while high iron intake was associated with increased PD risk. Diet quality was found to influence PD symptoms, particularly non-motor symptoms like constipation. Emerging evidence suggested a role for the gut microbiome in mediating diet-PD relationships. Specialized diets, such as ketogenic and low-carbohydrate diets, showed promise in managing PD symptoms in small-scale studies. This review provides evidence for the significant role of diet in PD risk, progression, and symptom management. Dietary interventions have the potential to serve as complementary approaches to existing PD therapies. However, the complex nature of the diet-PD relationship necessitates further research, particularly well-designed long-term randomized controlled trials, to develop evidence-based, personalized dietary recommendations for PD prevention and management.", 
    "abstract": "Spinocerebellar ataxia type 12 (SCA12) is a rare autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by abnormal CAG repeat expansion in the \nGenetically diagnosed (CAG repeats > 43) and symptomatic cases of SCA 12 were included in the study. Motor severity was assessed using the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA) and The Essential Tremor Rating Assessment Scale (TETRAS). Non-motor symptoms such as depression, autonomic function, and cognition were assessed using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), the Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's Disease-Autonomic Dysfunction (SCOPA-AUT), and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), respectively.\nThe mean age of the cohort with 34 SCA12 patients was 64.87 years (standard deviation 6.844). In this study, 21 patients (61.76%) had either mild or moderate cognitive impairment, almost equally frequent in early and advanced cases. Similarly a number of patients demonstrated evidence of moderate and severe depression. The SARA score was strongly associated with the MoCA score, and CAG repeat length could independently predict the MoCA score in this cohort. Autonomic symptoms were commonly present, with the majority of the patients experiencing urinary symptoms.\nNon-motor symptoms are common in SCA12 patients, even in the early stages of the condition. Timely detection and treatment of these symptoms may improve the therapeutic outcome and quality of life for SCA12 patients. The diverse symptoms of SCA12 perhaps indicate a widespread neurodegeneration beyond the cerebellum or its direct connections.", 
    "abstract": "As the COVID-19 pandemic persists, the increasing evidences suggest that the patients with COVID-19 may face the risks of the neurological complications and sequelae. To address this issue, we conducted a comprehensive study aimed at exploring the relationship between COVID-19 and various neurological disorders, with a particular focus on the shared dysregulated genes and the potential therapeutic targets. We selected six neurological disorders for investigation, including Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, stroke, Parkinson's disease, and the sleep disorders. Through the bioinformatics analysis of the association between these disorders and COVID-19, we aimed to uncover the common molecular mechanisms and the potential treatment pathways. In this study, we utilized the publicly available RNA-Seq and microarray datasets, and employed tools such as Limma and DESeq2 for the differential gene analysis. Through the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis, we explored the common biological features and pathways. Additionally, we focused on analyzing the regulatory roles of miRNA and transcription factors on the shared differentially expressed genes, and predicted the potential drugs interacting with these genes. These analyses contribute to a better understanding of the relationship between COVID-19 and the neurological disorders, and provide a theoretical basis for the future treatment strategies. Through this research, we aim to offer the deeper insights to the scientific community and present the new perspectives for the clinical practice in addressing the challenges of the neurological complications and sequelae faced by the COVID-19 patients.", 
    "abstract": "Over the last decade, we have gained a better understanding of impulse control disorder in Parkinson's disease (PD-ICD), a medication complication in PD. Researchers were aware of its complexity and took efforts to learn more about its diagnostic and treatment possibilities. Nevertheless, clinical management for it is currently neglected. We conducted a narrative overview of literature published from 2012 to October 2023 on various aspects of clinical management for PD-ICD. A potential \"susceptibility-catalytic-stress\" model in the development of PD-ICD was proposed and a profile encoding predictors for PD-ICD was created. Based on these predictors, some methods for prediction were recently developed for better prediction, such as the polymorphic dopamine genetic risk score and the clinic-genetic ICD-risk score. A variety of treatment options, including dose reduction of dopamine receptor agonists (DAs), DAs removal, DAs switch, and add-on therapy, are investigated with inconsistent reports. Based on current findings, we developed a clinical management model prototype centered on prevention, consisting of prediction, prevention, follow-up and monitoring, therapy, and recurrence prevention, for clinical reference, and further proposed 4 key clinical management principles, including standardization, prediction centered, persistence, and whole course.", 
    "abstract": "Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is characterized by progressive lower limb weakness and spasticity, with unknown genetic cause in many cases.\nTo identify novel genetic causes of HSP.\nPhenotypic characterization, genetic screening, transcriptome sequencing, and peroneal nerve biopsy were conducted in a Chinese HSP family.\nWe found a homoplasmic MT-TV (mitochondrial tRNA\nThe rare MT-TV m.1661A\u2009>\u2009G mutation is associated with HSP. Variations in mtDNA copy number may play a causal role in differences among clinical phenotypes. \u00a9 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "Knowledge of health care utilization at the end of life in Parkinson's disease (PD) is sparse. This study aims to investigate end of life health care utilization, characterized by emergency room (ER) visits, receipt of specialized palliative care (SPC), and acute hospital deaths in a\u00a0Swedish population-based PD cohort.\nWe conducted a retrospective cohort study on deceased patients (\u2265\u200918\u00a0years) with a PD diagnosis during their last year of life (n\u2009=\u2009922), based on health care-provider data from Region Stockholm\u00b4s data warehouse, for the study period 2015-2021. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses tested associations and adjusted Odds ratios (aORs) were calculated.\nDuring the last month of life, approx. half of the cohort had emergency room (ER) visits and risk of frailty (measured by Hospital Frailty Risk Score) significantly predicted these visits (aOR, 3.90 (2.75-5.55)). In total, 120 people (13%) received SPC during their last three months of life, which positively associated with risk for frailty, (aOR, 2.65 (1.43-4.94, p\u2009=\u20090.002). In total, 284 people (31%) died in acute hospital settings. Among community-dwellers, male gender and frailty were strongly associated with acute hospital deaths (aOR, 1.90 (1.15-3.13, p\u2009=\u20090.01) and 3.70 (1.96-6.98, p\u2009<\u20090.0001)).\nRates of ER visits at end of life and hospital deaths were relatively high in this population-based cohort. Considering a high disease burden, referral to SPC at end of life was relatively low. Sex-specific disparities in health care utilization are apparent. Identifying people with high risk for frailty could assist the planning of optimal end-of-life care for people with PD.", 
    "abstract": "Where available, Parkinson's Nurse Specialists (PNS) provide a range of care, support, guidance, and advocacy for people with Parkinson's (PwP), and, where appropriate, their care partners (CP). Parkinson's is a complex and progressive condition. Consequently, evaluating health outcomes is not a reliable method to understand the value and impact of PNS. Previous research has identified PNS can improve the subjective well-being of PwP in the community, also that barriers to care include heavy caseloads and a lack of time. Yet little is known about the value of the role of the PNS, particularly about the impact of pharmacological management and review. This research aims to close this research gap by providing explanatory theories of the impact and value of PNS to PwP, their CP, and other professionals.\nA social constructivist grounded theory approach was used. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with three groups, PNS, PwP, and CP. Interviews were analysed using NVivo for coding and categorising and Word for memo-writing. Data was analysed inductively and iteratively to identify contexts, social processes, actions, and behaviours, before final emergent theories were identified.\n46 semi-structured interviews (PNS 18, PwP 19, CP 9) led to four data categories and 13 sub-categories that delineated PNS value. (1) Expert Counsel; provision of emotional support, education, and lifestyle guidance; CP inclusion; provision from diagnosis; and across all stages of Parkinson's. (2) Conduit of Care; signposting, referral, and connection to PwP, CP, others; PNS barriers and facilitators; (3) Team/Partnership; continuity and partnership, 'working together'; (4) Pharmacological Support, PNS prescribing; concordance; speed of treatment. Where PNS were accessible they could offer personalised support and partnership, so providing person-centred care that improves health and well-being.\nWhere a PNS is accessible due to service availability and manageable caseloads, to provide person-centred care, they deliver several benefits to PwP and CP which improve health and perceived well-being. Where PNS are not available, PwP and CP often struggle to manage their Parkinson's with negative impacts on health and well-being.", 
    "abstract": "Inflammation significantly impacts Parkinson's disease (PD), yet the intricate relationship between inflammatory markers and PD remains elusive.\nTo identify the peripheral biomarkers of PD and its correlation with the motor and non-motor symptoms of PD.\n79 PD patients and 65 controls were included in this study. Clinical information and the serum levels of IL-8, IL-27, IL-33, \u03b2-NGF, AgRP, and TRAILR2 in the participants were collected. Appropriate scales were used to assess the symptoms of PD. For the factors with significant differences in the two groups, multivariable logistic regression was used to determine its relationship with PD. Moreover, spearman correlation was conducted to explore the correlation between the factors and PD related symptoms. The IL-27 level was compared between the cognitively healthy PD group and the mild cognitive impairment in PD (PD-MCI). The serum level of TRAILR2 was positively correlated with age and was not associated with other clinical characteristics related to PD.\nCompared to controls, the serum levels of IL-27(P\u2009=\u20090.013) were increased whereas the levels of TRAILR2(P\u2009=\u20090.008) were decreased in PD patients. IL-8, IL-33, \u03b2-NGF, and AgRP showed no significant differences between the two groups. After controlling for the other variables, IL-27 was considered as an independent risk factor for PD in the multivariable logistic regression model. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for diagnosing PD with IL-27 yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.621. Additionally, IL-27 level in PD patients was positively correlated with age, the disease duration, LEDD and negatively correlated with the MoCA scores. However, no significant difference was found in IL-27 levels between cognitively healthy PD and PD-MCI groups.\nElevated serum IL-27 was a risk factor for PD and positively correlated with the cognitive decline in PD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder. Currently available drugs for PD, can only relieve the symptoms of PD, but cannot prevent the progression of the disease and have serious side effects. Other new druggable therapeutic targets for PD are needed. First, six GEO datasets with transcriptomic data from the substantia nigra (SN) region of the brain were downloaded to find dysregulated druggable genes in PD. Then, Mendelian randomization (MR) and summary statistics-based MR (SMR) analysis were conducted using eQTL data from both brain tissue and blood to investigate the relationship between gene expression and PD. Next, the association between the expression of candidate druggable targets and disease stage was validated in an additional dataset GSE49036. Finally, a phenome-wide MR analysis was carried out to investigate the potential impact of candidate druggable genes on several other complex diseases or traits. Our study revealed 313 differentially expressed genes that may be directly targetable and have an impact on PD (FDR-p\u2009<\u20090.1). Through MR and SMR analysis, P2RX7 and RNASET2 were identified as feasible PD therapeutic targets, which were highly expressed in PD tissues and increased as the Braak stages increased. Phenome-wide MR analysis revealed other effects of targeting RNASET2. This study presents genetic support for the potential therapeutic properties of targeting P2RX7 and RNASET2, which will be useful for developing druggable therapeutic targets for PD.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Although \u03b1-synucleinopathy has been confirmed in the submandibular gland (SMG) tissue of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, in-depth disease-related molecular research, such as tissue-specific transcriptional signals, has not been performed. In the present study, disease-relevant tissue-specific transcriptional signals in SMG tissue from PD patients were investigated to identify potential diagnostic, prognostic, and pathophysiologic biomarkers. Here, seven de novo drug-na\u00efve PD patients and six age- and sex-matched individuals without neurological or psychological diseases were enrolled. Total RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and total small RNA-seq (smRNA-seq) were performed on SMG tissue and blood samples, with 26 RNA-seq and 26 smRNA-seq samples used for the final analysis. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and microRNAs in SMG tissue and blood from PD patients were obtained and their functional integration and interaction network were analyzed. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the DEGs interacted with cytokine-, inflammation-, and immune-related pathways. Synphilin-1 expression was significantly downregulated in SMG tissue of PD patients, and \u03b1-synuclein expression did not significantly differ between PD patients and controls in either SMG tissue or blood. Fifteen tissue-specific miRNA signals in SMG tissue were identified that showed better diagnostic ability compared with those in blood samples. The correlation between DEGs and environmental factors appeared altered in PD patients. The results indicated the DEGs and microRNA signatures identified in SMG tissue may be promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. These molecular insights offer potential avenues for the development of novel therapeutic strategies targeting the underlying disease mechanisms in PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "The deposition of pathological \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-Syn) in the central nervous system (CNS) is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Notably, pathological \u03b1-Syn exists not only in the CNS but also in peripheral organs and body fluids in PD patients. Emerging evidence has shown the transmission of \u03b1-Syn pathology from the body to the brain. Nevertheless, the factors that drive the aggregation of peripheral \u03b1-Syn remain largely unknown. Here, we revealed that complement receptor 1 (CR1), a component of the peripheral blood system, acts as a promoter of \u03b1-Syn pathology. The transmembrane domain of CR1 (CR1-TM) exacerbates \u03b1-Syn phosphorylation and aggregation in vitro. Furthermore, intravenous injection of \u03b1-Syn fibrils induced the formation of \u03b1-Syn pathology in the brain. Co-administration of CR1-TM exacerbated \u03b1-Syn pathology induced by intravenous injection of preformed \u03b1-Syn fibrils. Our findings suggest that extracerebral factors such as CR1 can drive \u03b1-Syn pathology and serve as therapeutic targets for treating synucleinopathies.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neuro-degenerative disorder most common in older adults which is associated with impairments in movement and other body functions. Most PD cases are classified as idiopathic PD (IPD), meaning that the etiology remains unidentified.\nTo identify key genes and molecular mechanisms to identify biomarkers applicable to IPD.\nWe applied a bioinformatics approach using a gene expression in whole blood dataset to pinpoint differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and pathways involved in IPD. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses of DEGs were subsequently performed. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was then constructed to select hub genes that may influence IPD. We further investigated the levels of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and differentially expressed microRNA (DEMs) of whole blood of patients with IPD to validate hub genes. Additionally, we examined the hub gene expression patterns in the substantia nigra (STN) using single-cell RNA sequencing datasets.\nIn total, we identified 124 DEGs in the blood samples of patients with IPD, with GO and KEGG analyses highlighting their significant enrichment. Analysis of PPI networks revealed three major clusters and hub genes: small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide E (SNRPE), cytochrome C oxidase subunit 7\u00a0C (COX7C), and ribosomal protein S27 (RPS27). DMRs and DEMs analyses revealed hub gene regulation via epigenetic and RNA interference. In particular, SNRPE and RPS27 showed identically regulated gene expression in the STN.\nThis study suggests that SNRPE, COX7C, and RPS27 in whole-blood samples derived from patients may be useful biomarkers for IPD.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's Disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder, is associated with substantial morbidity. \u03b1-Klotho, an anti-aging protein known for its neuroprotective properties, has gained attention. This study aims to assess serum levels of \u03b1-Klotho in PD patients.\nThis study is a cross-sectional case-control study. PD was diagnosed according to UK Parkinson Disease Society Brain Bank criteria. Serum \u03b1-Klotho level was measured using a commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.\nOf the 314 participants in the study, 157 were patients with PD and 157 were controls. Lower levels of \u03b1-Klotho were observed in PD (0.85 nmol/L) in comparison to the controls (1.47 nmol/L, p\u2009<\u20090.001). \u03b1-Klotho levels were also significantly lower among PD patients with dementia compared to PD patients without dementia. In logistic regression analysis, \u03b1-Klotho (OR: 0.04, p\u2009<\u20090.001) demonstrated a significant relationship between PD. A significant correlation was identified between \u03b1-Klotho levels and Mini-Mental State Examination scores in PD patients. The sensitivity and the specifity of \u03b1-Klotho were 90% and 65% for predicting PD.\nOur findings suggest that \u03b1-klotho could potentially serve as a biomarker. However additional studies are needed to confirm our findings.", 
    "abstract": "We aimed to measure serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and assess their correlation with non-motor symptoms (NMS).\nEmerging evidence suggests that abnormal levels of IGF-1 play a crucial role in the development of PD.\nFurther systematic research is needed to explore the potential roles of abnormal IGF-1 levels in NMS of PD.\nThe study enrolled a total of 129 PD patients and 130 healthy controls (HCs). Within the PD cohort, 74 patients were classified as being in the early stage, while 55 were in the moderate stage.\nThis study found no significant difference in serum IGF-1 levels between PD patients and HC. Further analysis revealed no significant difference in IGF-1 levels between early-stage PD and those in the moderate stages. Linear regression analysis indicated a significant association between serum IGF-1 levels and Nonmotor Symptom Scale (NMSS) scores in PD patients. Linear regression analysis revealed significant correlations between serum IGF-1 levels and general cognitive function, information processing speed, and executive function in PD patients. Furthermore, lower serum IGF-1 levels were associated with fatigue in PD patients.\nIn summary, our study suggests a potential association between serum IGF-1 levels and specific NMS in patients with PD. These findings highlight the importance of long-term follow-up studies to determine whether serum biomarkers can serve as valuable tools for early detection of NMS in PD.", 
    "abstract": "Neuroinflammation and microglial activation play critical roles in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Modulating microglial activation may help prevent the progression of these disorders. This study aimed to investigate the effects and mechanisms of ", 
    "abstract": "Dual-task interference (DTI) on gait is well documented in Parkinson's disease (PD), but how dual-tasks affect functional mobility is less known. Understanding how cognition and freezing of gait (FOG) further impact dual-task ability is important for risk assessment and subsequent delivery of targeted rehabilitation.\nWhat is the DTI on completion time of the Timed Up and Go, and DTI on response rate of a serial subtraction task when performed simultaneously, and is DTI impacted by FOG or cognition?\nA cross-sectional study design was used. Demographic and clinical characteristics of participants were collected, including global cognition and self-reported FOG. The TUG test was performed with and without a serial subtraction task. Completion times on TUG and response rates on the serial subtraction task was compared between single and dual-task performance using paired samples t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test as appropriate. Prioritization between tasks was compared with one-sample Wilcoxon signed rank test. The impact of FOG and cognition was investigated with multiple linear regression, controlling for age, sex, and disease severity.\nA total of 77 people with mild to moderate PD were included. Significant DTI was observed for both the gait (TUG) and cognitive (response rate) tasks. No statistically significant pattern of prioritization was observed between motor and cognitive tasks. Global cognition was significantly related to both completion time and response rate in single and dual-tasking, whereas FOG was not found to be associated to the outcomes in either condition.\nCognition appears to significantly relate to performance of functional mobility in single and dual-task conditions, which should be considered during routine mobility assessments in people with PD.", 
    "abstract": "Irisin is a myokine that is cleaved from 5-domain type III fibronectin (FNDC5), and is known for its metabolic functions as it stimulates browning of white adipose tissue; similarly, effects on the central nervous system have been described, specifically in neurodevelopmental and neuroprotection processes. The purpose of this review is to describe recent information on the effects of irisin on neuroinflammation to contribute to the knowledge about the mechanisms by which irisin and exercise could generate benefits for some neurological diseases. The review conducted found several studies describing the effect of irisin on pathways such as STAT3, p38, cAMP/PKA/CREB, as well as effects on GFAP protein expression or apoptosis processes in both in vitro and in vivo models; likewise, these pathways are associated with better BDNF expression. Despite increasing information on this topic, it is still necessary to clarify the mechanisms by which irisin has effects on neuroinflammation and this could represent an opportunity to generate more treatments for diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's or Diabetes Mellitus.", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is commonly used to treat Parkinson's disease (PD) and other movement disorders when other treatments fail. Although DBS can significantly improve motor symptoms, it carries risks such as infections, which can require multiple surgeries and prolonged antibiotic therapy. Research on the long-term neurological effects of DBS-related infections is limited.\nA 58-year-old man with a 13-year history of PD, refractory to optimized clinical management, underwent subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS after previous contralateral lesioning of the posterior subthalamic area. Postoperatively, the DBS lead migrated upward and was repositioned, but he developed perielectrode cerebritis 5 days later. The DBS system was completely removed, and he underwent a 28-day course of intravenous antibiotics. Initially, his motor symptoms remained unchanged, but 4 months later, he experienced a significant and sustained motor symptom improvement that continued until the last follow-up assessment (40 months). Magnetic resonance imaging performed 2 years after the explantation showed gliosis and hemosiderin deposition in the STN, suggesting that the infection-induced gliosis had a lesion-like effect, leading to the observed clinical improvement.\nThis case suggests that infection-induced gliosis from DBS complications can unexpectedly result in long-term motor symptom improvements, potentially influencing future management strategies for similar cases. https://thejns.org/doi/10.3171/CASE24502.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) may benefit from deep brain stimulation (DBS). Perifocal brain edema sometimes occurs after DBS surgery, but it is transient and does not affect the final prognosis. Transient deterioration of cognitive function has been reported in patients with frontal edema in the first postoperative week. This study aimed to investigate the effect of Goreisan in preventing edematous changes after DBS and determine the influence of edema on cognition.\nWe included 29 patients with PD who underwent bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS and who were divided into 2 groups: those using (11 patients) and those not using Goreisan (18 patients). At 1 week postoperatively, all patients underwent magnetic resonance imaging. We measured the volume of edema either in the frontal white matter or STN on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images. Finally, brain edema, motor function, and cognitive function were compared between the groups with and without Goreisan.\nIn the FLAIR image 1 week postoperatively, the average postoperative frontal subcortical edema (FE) volume of the group with Goreisan was significantly lower than that without Goreisan (2249\u00a0\u00b1\u00a02186\u00a0mm\nFE after DBS surgery may be alleviated using Goreisan. SE and preoperative MMSE scores were associated with MMSE scores 1 week postoperatively.\nNot applicable.", 
    "abstract": "Advances in genetic technologies and disease modeling have greatly accelerated the pace of introducing and validating molecular-genetic contributors to disease. In dystonia, there is a growing convergence across multiple distinct forms of the disease onto core biological processes. Here, we discuss two of these, the endosome-autophagosome-lysosome pathway and the integrated stress response, to highlight recent advances in the field. Using these two pathomechanisms as examples, we further discuss the opportunities that molecular-genetic grouping of dystonias present to transform dystonia care. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "This study aimed to determine whether the olfactory bulb height (OBH) measured using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has clinical utility as an imaging biomarker in the evaluation of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (iPD) through its correlation with movement impairment.\nThis retrospective study included cognitively intact patients with suspected parkinsonism. All participants underwent T2-weighted imaging to measure OBH. Logistic regression was used to determine whether OBH was an independent risk factor for distinguishing iPD patients from disease controls, and its relation with clinical parameters related to motor impairment, including clinical laterality, modified Hoehn and Yahr (HY) stage, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) III score, was investigated.\nBased on the final clinical diagnosis, 79 patients with iPD and 16 disease controls were included. The mean OBH was significantly smaller in iPD than in disease controls (p < 0.0001). OBH was a significant independent predictor of iPD, with a cutoff of 1.52 mm. In the comparison among the ipsilateral, contralateral side of iPD with clinical laterality, and disease control group, the OBH of the disease control group was significantly larger than both the ipsilateral and contralateral sides (P < 0.05). However, there was no significant difference in OBH between the ipsilateral and contralateral sides (p > 0.05). OBH according to HY stage was significantly smaller in HY stage 2-3 groups than in the disease control group (p < 0.001). The correlation analysis between UPDRS III and OBH showed a mild negative correlation (r = -0.32, p = 0.013).\nMRI-measured OBH is decreased in iPD regardless of age and sex and may be correlated with the progression of motor symptoms in the iPD.", 
    "abstract": "Levodopa-entacapone-carbidopa intestinal gel (LECIG) infusion is a recently developed device-aided therapy for advanced Parkinson disease (PD) patients. The aim of this study was to report real-world evidence about the effectiveness, tolerability, and safety of LECIG in PD patients.\nA multicenter observational retrospective study of the first patients who initiated LECIG in Spain was performed. All neurologists with an experience of at least two patients treated until 30 March 2024 were invited to participate. Data about effectiveness and safety from the medical records (V0, pre-LECIG; V1, initiation of LECIG; V2, post-LECIG follow-up) with a total of 246 variables were collected.\nSeventy-three PD patients (61.6% males, 70.1\u2009\u00b1\u20099.1\u2009years old) from 21 Spanish centers with a mean disease duration of 14.4\u2009\u00b1\u20096.3\u2009years (range\u2009=\u20095-31) were included. Twenty-six patients (35.6%) were switched directly from levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel. The mean exposure to LECIG was 177.3\u2009\u00b1\u2009110.5\u2009days (range\u2009=\u20097-476). The mean daily OFF time decreased from 5.2\u2009\u00b1\u20093 (pre-LECIG) to 1.9\u2009\u00b1\u20091.8 (post-LECIG; n\u2009=\u200966, p\u2009<\u20090.0001). Global improvement was observed in >85% of the patients. No significant change was detected in the levodopa equivalent daily dose from V0 to V2. Only 7% received 24-h infusion, and 24.7% required more than one cartridge per day at V2. Thirty-four patients (46.6%) had at least one adverse event related to LECIG and/or the device system. Five patients (6.8%) discontinued LECIG.\nLECIG was safe and effective in advanced PD patients.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by dopamine (DA) neuronal dysfunction. Although DA agonists and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists are used to treat PD, chronic use causes severe side effects. Puerarin (PUE) is a natural bioactive compound that affects the DA system; however, its effect on PD-associated motor functions is unknown. Therefore, we investigated whether PUE treatment in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) PD mouse model affects motor dysfunction.\nAdult male ICR mice received unilateral 6-OHDA microinfusion into the right medial forebrain bundle. After a 2-week recovery period, PUE (20 or 50\u00a0mg/kg) or the vehicle (saline, VEH) was administered intraperitoneally once daily for 21 days. Motor dysfunction was assessed using the locomotion, gait cycle, and rotation tests. Local field potentials (LFPs) were measured in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc), striatum (STR), subthalamic nucleus (STN), and primary motor cortex.\n6-OHDA-lesioned PD mice showed increased gait cycle disturbance and unidirectional rotation. PUE treatment ameliorated the gait cycle disturbance, but not unidirectional rotation of PD mice. These effects differed with DA agonist treatment (which improved PD symptoms) and NMDAR antagonist treatment (which aggravated PD symptoms). Moreover, locomotion was increased only in NMDAR antagonist treatment. PUE treatment induced no changes in the attenuated LFP of the beta wave in the STR and STN, and SNc-STN delta-wave coherence was shown in PD animals.\nThis study suggests that PUE is a beneficial co-therapeutic agent for alleviating gait cycle disturbance in PD symptoms.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor paralysis, tremor,and cognitive impairment. Risk factors such as brain hypoxia caused by aging and abnormal expression of HIF-1\u03b1 areconsidered to be key to the development of PD, including \u03b1-synuclein accumulation and ferroptosis. However, therelationship between HIF-1\u03b1 signaling and ferroptosis in PD has not been elucidated. The stable expression of HIF-1\u03b1inhibits the pathological development of PD. Aging aggravates PD pathology by promoting \u03b1-synuclein accumulationand oxidative stress.\nThe literature on lipid peroxidation, oxidative stress, iron metabolism and other key factors in Parkinson'sdisease in recent years was reviewed through a variety of literature search channels, such as PubMed and Elsevier.\nHIF-1\u03b1 mediated ferroptosis through oxidative stress and GPX4-GSH system. HIF-1\u03b1 mediates ferroptosisthrough Keap1-Nrf2-ARE, Grx3 and Grx4. HIF-1\u03b1 mediates ferroptosis through iron metabolism.\nThis article reviews the oxygen-dependent regulatory mechanism of HIF-1\u03b1 and its role in cerebralhypoxia homeostasis. Studies in the past decade have shown that Hif-1\u03b1 mediated ferroptosis is important in PD.HIF-1\u03b1 has a dual role, depending on the degree of cellular hypoxia and the environment. The equilibrium complexityneeds to be explained, and the role of ferroptosis needs to be investigated. The literature shows that the stabilizationof HIF-1\u03b1 with PHD inhibitors and the combination of antioxidants and iron chelators are potential therapeuticdirections. In the future, the optimal use time and dose of inhibitors should be studied to improve the efficacy.", 
    "abstract": "Endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria contact sites play a critical role in cell health and homeostasis, such as the regulation of Ca", 
    "abstract": "The primary aim of this study is to develop an effective and reliable diagnostic system for neurodegenerative diseases by utilizing gait data transformed into QR codes and classified using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The objective of this method is to enhance the precision of diagnosing neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD), through the introduction of a novel approach to analyze gait patterns.\nThe research evaluates the CNN-based classification approach using QR-represented gait data to address the diagnostic challenges associated with neurodegenerative diseases. The gait data of subjects were converted into QR codes, which were then classified using a CNN deep learning model. The dataset includes recordings from patients with Parkinson's disease (n = 15), Huntington's disease (n = 20), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (n = 13), and from 16 healthy controls.\nThe accuracy rates obtained through 10-fold cross-validation were as follows: 94.86% for NDD versus control, 95.81% for PD versus control, 93.56% for HD versus control, 97.65% for ALS versus control, and 84.65% for PD versus HD versus ALS versus control. These results demonstrate the potential of the proposed system in distinguishing between different neurodegenerative diseases and control groups.\nThe results indicate that the designed system may serve as a complementary tool for the diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases, particularly in individuals who already present with varying degrees of motor impairment. Further validation and research are needed to establish its wider applicability.", 
    "abstract": "This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic significance of serum uric acid (UA), glutathione (GSH), and amyloid-\u03b21-42 (A\u03b21-42) levels in relation to disease progression and cognitive impairment in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).\nA total of 209 PD patients with disease duration ranging from 4.0 to 6.8 years were enrolled. Based on the Hoehn-Yahr staging system, patients were classified into Early (n\u2009=\u200967), Medium-term (n\u2009=\u200970), and Advanced (n\u2009=\u200972) stages. Cognitive function was assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), dividing the cohort into CD (cognitive dysfunction, n\u2009=\u200994) and NO-CD (no cognitive dysfunction, n\u2009=\u2009115) groups. Serum UA, GSH, and A\u03b21-42 levels were analyzed for correlations with clinical data. Independent risk factors and diagnostic value were determined through multivariable logistic regression models and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis.\nSerum UA and GSH levels progressively declined with advancing disease stage, while A\u03b21-42 increased. Compared to the NO-CD group, the CD group showed lower serum UA and GSH levels, and higher A\u03b21-42 levels. Serum UA and GSH were inversely correlated with disease duration, levodopa equivalent daily dose, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale scores, while A\u03b21-42 showed positive correlations. UA (\nSerum UA, GSH, and A\u03b21-42 are independent predictors of disease progression and cognitive decline in PD patients. Their combined use offers enhanced diagnostic accuracy for disease staging and cognitive impairment in PD.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of the study was to examine whether magnesium (Mg) depletion score (MDS) and dietary Mg intake are associated in adults with the risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we analyzed data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), which included 20,010 adults aged over 40 years old. To evaluate the linear association between PD and dietary intake of Mg or MDS, we conducted weighted logistic regression for univariate analysis and multivariate linear regression models. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated using logistic regression models. A restricted cubic spline (RCS) was drawn to visualize the nonlinear relationship between MDS/dietary Mg intake and PD. In addition, we examined the variations in the relationship between MDS and PD across different confounding factors of the association using subgroup analysis. There were 240 PD cases (1.2%), and 19770 non-PD were included in the study. We found that a higher MDS was associated with an increased risk of PD after adjusting for covariates (OR per 1-unit increase, 1.47; 95% CI, 1.16-1.86). There is insufficient evidence to support a significant statistical association between Mg intake and the risk of PD. According to nonlinear regression, high MDS was associated with higher odds of PD and lower odds of PD above 250 mg/day intake of Mg. It has been shown that Mg bioavailability may be negatively associated with PD as measured by MDS. MDS is a potential method for screening the population with PD. Maintaining adequate Mg status may be important for PD prevention.", 
    "abstract": "Numerous studies reported a higher prevalence of polyneuropathy (PNP) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) compared to the general population. Importantly, PNP symptoms can aggravate both motor and sensory disturbances in PD patients and negatively impact the disease course. Recent analyses indicate distinct PNP patterns in PD.\nThis review aims to provide an overview of the current insights into etiological factors, diagnostic methods, and management strategies of large fiber neuropathy in PD. Despite the higher prevalence, the causes of PNP in PD are still not fully understood. A genetic predisposition can underlie PNP onset in PD. Main research attention is focused on long-term levodopa exposure which is suggested to increase PNP risk by depletion of methylation cofactors such as vitamin B12 and accumulation of homocysteine that altogether can alter peripheral nerve homeostasis. Beyond a potential \"iatrogenic\" cause, alpha-synuclein deposition has been detected in sural nerve fibers that could contribute to peripheral neuronal degeneration as part of the systemic manifestation of PD. Whereas mild axonal sensory PNP predominates in PD, a considerable proportion of patients also show motor and upper limb nerve involvement. Intriguingly, a correlation between PNP severity and PD severity has been demonstrated. Therefore, PNP screening involving clinical and instrument-based assessments should be implemented in the clinical routine for early detection and monitoring. Given the etiological uncertainty, therapeutic or preventive options remain limited. Vitamin supplementation and use of catechol-O-methyltransferase-inhibitors can be taken into consideration.\nPNP is increasingly recognized as a complicating comorbidity of PD patients. Long-term, large-scale prospective studies are required to elucidate the causative factors for the development and progression of PD-associated PNP to optimize treatment approaches. The overall systemic role of \"idiopathic\" PNP in PD and a putative association with the progression of neurodegeneration should also be investigated further.", 
    "abstract": "Numerous studies proposed methods to detect Parkinson's disease (PD) via speech analysis. However, existing corpora often lack prodromal recordings, have small sample sizes, and lack longitudinal data. Speech samples from celebrities who publicly disclosed their PD diagnosis provide longitudinal data, allowing the creation of a new corpus, ParkCeleb. We collected videos from 40 subjects with PD and 40 controls and analyzed evolving speech features from 10 years before to 20 years after diagnosis. Our longitudinal analysis, focused on 15 subjects with PD and 15 controls, revealed features like pitch variability, pause duration, speech rate, and syllable duration, indicating PD progression. Early dysarthria patterns were detectable in the prodromal phase, with the best classifiers achieving AUCs of 0.72 and 0.75 for data collected ten and five years before diagnosis, respectively, and 0.93 post-diagnosis. This study highlights the potential for early detection methods, aiding treatment response identification and screening in clinical trials.", 
    "abstract": "The aim of this study was to make unstructured neuropathological data, located in the NeuroBioBank (NBB), follow Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reusability principles and investigate the potential of large language models (LLMs) in wrangling unstructured neuropathological reports. By making the currently inconsistent and disparate data findable, our overarching goal was to enhance research output and speed. The NBB catalog currently includes information from medical records, interview results, and neuropathological reports. These reports contain crucial information necessary for conducting an in-depth analysis of NBB data but have multiple formats that vary across different NBB biorepositories and change over time. In this study, we focused on a subset of 822 donors with Parkinson's disease (PD) from seven NBB biorepositories. We developed a data model with combined Brain Region and Pathological Findings data at its core. This approach made it easier to build an extraction pipeline and was flexible enough to convert resulting data to Common Data Elements, a standardized data collection tool used by the neuroscience community to improve consistency and facilitate data sharing across studies. This pilot study demonstrated the potential of LLMs in structuring unstructured neuropathological reports of PD patients available in the NBB. The pipeline enabled successful extraction of detailed tissue-level (microscopic) and gross anatomical (macroscopic) observations, along with staging information from pathology reports, with extraction quality comparable to manual curation results. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to automatically standardize neuropathological information at this scale. The collected data have the potential to serve as a valuable resource for PD researchers, facilitating integration with clinical information and genetic data (such as genome-wide genotyping and whole-genome sequencing) available through the NBB, thereby enabling a more comprehensive understanding of the disease.", 
    "abstract": "The present study aimed to characterize neuroprotective effects of Schisandra Decoction (Sch D) treatment in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD), and to explore underlying mechanisms focused on the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway.\n50 male C57 BL/6 mice were randomly assigned to either control (n = 10) or 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model (n = 40) groups. PD mice were further divided into four groups of ten mice each: MPTP group, LY294002 group, Sch D group, and LY2940002 + Sch D group. Mice from each group were assessed in pole climbing, rotary rod and open field tests. Brain Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein was observed using immunohistochemistry. mRNA levels of PTEN, PI3K and LC3 in brain tissue were measured using RT-PCR. Protein levels of PTEN, PI3K, Akt, p-Akt, mTOR, p-mTOR, p70s6K, p62, LC3II / I, \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn), TH in brain tissue were assessed by Western blotting (WB).\nIn behavioral tests, PD mice treated with Sch D showed reduced pole climbing time, longer rotarod duration, and greater distance traveled. In terms of neuroprotection, PD mice in the Sch D group exhibited higher levels of TH protein and enhanced \u03b1-syn clearance. Regarding autophagy, compared to the control group, mice in the MPTP group had elevated PTEN protein expression, which inhibited PI3K, p-AKT/AKT, and p-mTOR/mTOR protein levels, decreased LC3II/I protein expression, and increased P62 protein expression. Treatment with Sch D reversed these effects.\nSch D reduces \u03b1-syn aggregation in the brains of MPTP-induced PD model mice, exerts neuroprotective effects, and improves motor function. Additionally, Sch D inhibits autophagy through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. The neuroprotective effect of Sch D may involve the suppression of abnormal autophagy and its antioxidant properties, which indirectly reduces \u03b1-syn accumulation. Future studies should assess the impact of Sch D on oxidative stress markers to evaluate its antioxidant effects.", 
    "abstract": "\u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1Syn) and S129 phosphorylated \u03b1Syn (pSyn) define synucleinopathies like Parkinson's disease (PD). Targeting S129 \u03b1Syn kinases, like the Polo-like kinase (PLK) family, could provide a therapeutic strategy to limit degeneration of cells bearing aggregated \u03b1Syn inclusions. Using longitudinal ", 
    "abstract": "Preclinical models of Parkinson's disease are imperative to gain insight into the neural circuits that contribute to gait dysfunction in advanced stages of the disease. A PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 knockout early-onset model of Parkinson's disease may be a useful rodent model to study the effects of neurotransmitter degeneration caused by a loss of PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 function on brain activity during volitional gait. The goal of this study was to measure changes in neural activity at the cerebellar vermis at 8 months of age. It was found that gait deficits, except run speed, were not significantly different from age-matched wild-type controls, as previously reported. PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 knockout (", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by gait dysfunction in the advanced stages of the disease. The unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine toxin-induced model is the most studied animal model of Parkinson's disease, which reproduces gait dysfunction after >68% dopamine loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The extent to which the neural activity in hemi-parkinsonian rats correlates to gait dysfunction and dopaminergic cell loss is not clear. In this article, we report the effects of unilateral dopamine depletion on cerebellar vermis activity using micro-electrocorticography during walking and freezing on a runway. Gait and neural activity were measured in 6-hydroxydopamine- and sham-lesioned rats aged between 4 and 5 months at 14, 21 and 28 days after infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine or control vehicle into the medial forebrain bundle (", 
    "abstract": "This scientific commentary refers to 'Noradrenergic modulation of saccades in Parkinson's disease', by \u202fOrlando ", 
    "abstract": "Noradrenaline is a powerful modulator of cognitive processes, including action decisions underlying saccadic control. Changes in saccadic eye movements are common across neurodegenerative diseases of ageing, including Parkinson's disease. With growing interest in noradrenergic treatment potential for non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease, the temporal precision of oculomotor function is advantageous to assess the effects of this modulation. Here, we studied the effect of 40\u2005mg atomoxetine, a noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, in 19 people with idiopathic Parkinson's disease using a single dose, randomized double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled design. Twenty-five healthy adult participants completed the assessments to provide normative data. Participants performed prosaccade and antisaccade tasks. The latency, velocity and accuracy of saccades, and resting pupil diameter, were measured. Increased pupil diameter on the drug confirmed its expected effect on the locus coeruleus ascending arousal system. Atomoxetine altered key aspects of saccade performance: prosaccade latencies were faster and the saccadic main sequence was normalized. These changes were accompanied by increased antisaccade error rates on the drug. Together, these findings suggest a shift in the speed-accuracy trade-off for visuomotor decisions in response to noradrenergic treatment. Our results provide new evidence to substantiate a role for noradrenergic modulation of saccades, and based on known circuitry, we advance the hypothesis that this reflects modulation at the level of the locus coeruleus-superior colliculus pathway. Given the potential for noradrenergic treatment of non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease and related conditions, the oculomotor system can support the assessment of cognitive effects without limb-motor confounds on task performance.", 
    "abstract": "Here we systematically studied the reproducibility of DEGs in previously published Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Parkinson's Disease (PD), and COVID-19 scRNA-seq studies. We found that while transcriptional scores created from differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in individual PD and COVID-19 datasets had moderate predictive power for the case control status of other datasets (mean AUC=0.77 and 0.75, respectively), genes from individual AD datasets had poor predictive power (mean AUC=0.68). We developed a non-parametric meta-analysis method, SumRank, based on reproducibility of relative differential expression ranks across datasets. The meta-analysis genes had improved predictive power (AUCs of 0.88, 0.91, and 0.78, respectively). By multiple other metrics, specificity and sensitivity of these genes were substantially higher than those discovered by dataset merging and inverse variance weighted p-value aggregation methods. The DEGs revealed known and novel biological pathways, and we validate the ", 
    "abstract": "Freezing of gait (FOG) is an important milestone in the individual disease trajectory of people with Parkinson's disease (PD). Based on the \nA cross-sectional analysis comparing iPD\niPD\nWe determined a significant association between FOG and a clinical endophenotype of PD with higher non-motor burden. While our results supported the cognitive model of FOG, our findings point to a more widespread cortical impairment across cognitive subdomains beyond the executive domain in PD", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) improves motor outcomes in Parkinson's disease (PD) but may have adverse long-term effects on specific cognitive domains. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between total electrical energy (TEED) delivered by DBS and postoperative changes in verbal fluency.\nSeventeen PD patients undergoing bilateral STN-DBS were assessed with the Alternate Verbal Fluency Battery (AVFB), which includes phonemic (PVF), semantic (SVF), and alternate verbal fluency (AVF) tests, before surgery (T0) and after 6 (T1) and 12 months (T2). Bilateral TEED and average TEEDM were recorded at T1 and T2. For each AVFB measurement, changes from T0 to T1 (\u0394-01) and from T0 to T2 (\u0394-02) were calculated.\nAt T1, PVF (\nIn conclusion, the present reports provide preliminary evidence that TEED may not be responsible or only slightly responsible for the decline in VF performance after STN-DBS in PD.", 
    "abstract": "Gaucher disease (GD) is the most common lysosomal storage disease. It is a multisystemic metabolic disease caused by GBA pathogenic mutations. Although the general symptoms have been known for a long time, new treatment possibilities, the detection of different biomarkers, and innovations in diagnosis and follow-up have paved the way for further studies. Recent studies have shown that the immune system has become an essential factor associated with disease progression. The role of Gaucher cells in the disease is well characterized. In addition to phagocytic macrophage cells, lymphocytes, complement system, and inflammatory pathway elements are also implicated in GD as they were shown to be the underlying factors causing associated pathologies such as Parkinson's. In this article, the relationship between the GD and the immune system has been examined and reviewed in light of new findings.", 
    "abstract": "Serine 129 can be phosphorylated in pathological inclusions formed by the intrinsically disordered protein human \u03b1-synuclein (AS), a key player in Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies. Here, molecular simulations provide insight into the structural ensemble of phosphorylated AS. The simulations allow us to suggest that phosphorylation significantly impacts the structural content of the physiological AS conformational ensemble in aqueous solution, as the phosphate group is mostly solvated. The hydrophobic region of AS contains \u03b2-hairpin structures, which may increase the propensity of the protein to undergo amyloid formation, as seen in the nonphysiological (nonacetylated) form of the protein in a recent molecular simulation study. Our findings are consistent with existing experimental data with the caveat of the observed limitations of the force field for the phosphorylated moiety.", 
    "abstract": "Protein aggregation, particularly the formation of amyloid fibrils, is associated with numerous human disorders, including Parkinson's disease. This neurodegenerative condition is characterised by the accumulation of \u03b1-Synuclein amyloid fibrils within intraneuronal deposits known as Lewy bodies or neurites. C-terminally truncated forms of \u03b1-Synuclein are frequently observed in these inclusions in the brains of patients, and their increased aggregation propensity suggests a role in the disease's pathogenesis. This study demonstrates that the small molecule ZPD-2 acts as a potent inhibitor of both the spontaneous and seeded amyloid polimerisation of C-terminally truncated \u03b1-Synuclein by interfering with early aggregation intermediates. This dual activity positions this molecule as a promising candidate for therapeutic development in treating synucleinopathies.", 
    "abstract": "The study of One Million U.S. Radiation Workers and Veterans, the Million Person Study (MPS), examines the health consequences, both cancer and non-cancer, of exposure to ionizing radiation received gradually over time. Recently the MPS has focused on mortality patterns from neurological and behavioral conditions, e.g., Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, dementia, and motor neuron disease such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A fuller picture of radiation-related late effects comes from studying both mortality and the occurrence (incidence) of conditions not leading to death. Accordingly, the MPS is identifying neurocognitive diagnoses from fee-for-service insurance claims from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), among Medicare beneficiaries beginning in 1999 (the earliest date claims data are available). Linkages to date have identified \u223c540,000 workers with available health information. Such linkages provide individual information on important co-factor and confounding variables such as smoking, alcohol consumption, blood pressure, obesity, diabetes and many other health and demographic characteristics. The total person-level set of time-dependent variables, outcomes, organ-specific dose measures, co-factors, and demographics will be massive and much too large to be evaluated with standard software. Thus, development of specialized open-source software designed for large datasets (Colossus) is nearly complete. The wealth of information available from CMS claims data, coupled with individual dose reconstructions, will thus greatly enhance the quality and precision of health evaluations for this new field of low-dose radiation and neurocognitive effects.", 
    "abstract": "Autophagy dysfunction in glial cells is implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The previous study reported that \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-Syn) disrupted autophagy in cultured microglia. However, the mechanism of microglial autophagy dysregulation is poorly understood.\nTwo \u03b1-Syn-based PD models were generated via AAV-mediated \u03b1-Syn delivery into the mouse substantia nigra and striatal \u03b1-Syn preformed fibril (PFF) injection. The levels of microglial UNC-51-like kinase 1 (Ulk1) and other autophagy-related genes in vitro and in PD mice, as well as in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of PD patients and healthy controls, were determined via quantitative PCR, western blotting and immunostaining. The regulatory effect of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) on Ulk1 transcription was determined via a luciferase reporter assay and other biochemical studies and was verified through Stat1 knockdown or overexpression. The effect of \u03b1-Syn on glial STAT1 activation was assessed by immunohistochemistry and western blotting. Changes in microglial status, proinflammatory molecule expression and dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatum of PD and control mice following microglial Stat1 conditional knockout (cKO) or treatment with the ULK1 activator BL-918 were evaluated by immunostaining and western blotting. Motor behaviors were determined via open field tests, rotarod tests and balance beam crossing.\nThe transcription of microglial ULK1, a kinase that controls autophagy initiation, decreased in both in vitro and in vivo PD mouse models. STAT1 plays a critical role in suppressing Ulk1 transcription. Specifically, Stat1 overexpression downregulated Ulk1 transcription, while Stat1 knockdown increased ULK1 expression, along with an increase in LC3II and a decrease in the SQSTM1/p62 protein. \u03b1-Syn PFF caused toll-like receptor 4-dependent activation of STAT1 in microglia. Ablation of Stat1 alleviated the decrease in microglial ULK1 expression and disruption of autophagy caused by \u03b1-Syn PFF. Importantly, the ULK1 activator BL-918 and microglial Stat1 cKO attenuated neuroinflammation, dopaminergic neuronal damage and motor defects in PD models.\nThese findings reveal a novel mechanism by which \u03b1-Syn impairs microglial autophagy and indicate that targeting STAT1 or ULK1 may be a therapeutic strategy for PD.", 
    "abstract": "For people with Parkinson's disease (PwPD), high-intensity exercise in individual or group format can improve function and quality of life (QoL). Individualized virtual exercise programs have been effective for people with PD, but the feasibility and impact of group exercise in the virtual format has not been investigated.\nTo compare the effect of individual and group virtual exercise on functional mobility and QoL for PwPD.\nTwenty PwPD were randomized to individualized (\nParticipants attended over 75% of scheduled sessions. Within-group analysis showed statistically significant improvements in Five Times Sit-to-Stand (\nThis high-intensity, virtual exercise program was safe and effective at improving balance and functional mobility for community-dwelling PwPD in individual and group format. Virtual exercise programs, either in an individual or group format, can increase access to high-quality programs for PwPD.", 
    "abstract": "The impact of subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) on neuropsychiatric fluctuations in Parkinson\u00b4s disease (PD) remains unclear. The Neuropsychiatric Fluctuations Scale (NFS) can help to fill this gap, directly measuring fluctuations between the OFF- and ON-medication conditions. The NFS provides NFS-plus (hyperdopaminergic) and NFS-minus (hypodopaminergic) sub-scores. Based on these, the NFS global scores express the overall magnitude of neuropsychiatric symptoms in both the OFF- and ON-medication states. The total fluctuation score (TFS) represents the difference between ON- vs. OFF-medication NFS global scores, thus assessing fluctuations amplitude. The NFS was used to evaluate changes in neuropsychiatric fluctuations between the OFF- and ON-medication conditions before and 1-year after bilateral STN-DBS in 45 PD patients (32 males; mean age, 61.3\u2009\u00b1\u20097.2 years; PD duration, 10.2\u2009\u00b1\u20093.0 years). After surgery, the amplitude of neuropsychiatric fluctuations was significantly reduced (p\u2009<\u20090.001), confirming the efficacy of STN-DBS on these symptoms.", 
    "abstract": "Deep brain stimulation (DBS) with electric field steering may avoid areas responsible for side effects. This prospective randomized cross-over trial compared omnidirectional (OS) and directional (DS) subthalamic DBS in 19 patients. Electromyographically measured rigidity was the primary outcome. Motor and non-motor scores were secondary outcomes. There were no significant differences between OS and DS. In the acute setting, both conditions improved motor scores compared to no stimulation. Motor symptoms improved after 3 weeks of OS relative to acute measurements, whereas they worsened under DS. The more ventral the active contact, and the less the motor improvement sweet spot was stimulated, the greater the benefit of DS over OS for executive function. Accurate OS of the dorsal subthalamic nucleus ensures motor and non-motor improvements. While DS can mitigate executive decline stemming from off-target stimulation, it may lead to worse motor outcomes. Larger, long-term studies are needed to confirm these findings. (Registration: subthalamic steering for therapy optimization in Parkinson's Disease ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03548506, 2018-06-06).", 
    "abstract": "Associations between the gut microbiota and Parkinson's disease (PD) have been widely investigated. However, the replicable biomarkers for PD diagnosis across multiple populations remain elusive. Herein, we performed a meta-analysis to investigate the pivotal role of the gut microbiome in PD and its potential diagnostic implications. Six 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequence datasets from five independent studies were integrated, encompassing 550 PD and 456 healthy control samples. The analysis revealed significant alterations in microbial composition and alpha and beta diversity, emphasizing altered gut microbiota in PD. Specific microbial taxa, including Faecalibacterium, Roseburia, and Coprococcus_2, known as butyrate producers, were notably diminished in PD, potentially contributing to intestinal inflammation. Conversely, genera such as Akkermansia and Bilophila exhibited increased relative abundances. A network-based algorithm called NetMoss was utilized to identify potential biomarkers of PD. Afterwards, a classification model incorporating 11 optimized genera demonstrated high performance. Further functional analyses indicated enrichment in pathways related to neurodegeneration and metabolic pathways. These findings illuminate the intricate relationship between the gut microbiota and PD, offering insights into potential therapeutic interventions and personalized diagnostic strategies.", 
    "abstract": "Border-associated macrophages (BAMs) constitute a highly heterogeneous group of central nervous system-resident macrophages at the brain boundaries. Despite their significance, BAMs have mainly been overlooked compared to microglia, resulting in a limited understanding of their functions. However, recent advancements in single-cell immunophenotyping and transcriptomic analyses of BAMs have revealed a previously unrecognized complexity in these cells, in addition to their critical roles under non-pathological conditions and diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, glioma, and ischemic stroke. In this review, we discuss the origins, self-renewal capabilities, and extensive heterogeneity of BAMs, and clarify their important physiological functions such as immune monitoring, waste removal and vascular permeability regulation. We also summarize experimental evidence linking BAMs to the progression of AD. Finally, we review therapeutic strategies targeting brain innate immune cells mainly focusing on strategies aimed at modulating BAMs to treat AD and evaluate their potential in clinical applications.", 
    "abstract": "Burning incense sticks is a traditional practice in many cultures, especially in Southeast Asia. While it is often regarded as sacred and beneficial, modern incense sticks contain various chemicals that can pose health risks. A GCMS analysis of the ICS revealed potential compounds. Network toxicology revealed that ICS contains compounds violating Lipinski's rule of five, leading to potential neurotoxic effects. Key pathways affected include neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and calcium signaling, associated with neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. Significant genes involved are STAT3, BCL2, and MTOR, emphasizing the chemical hazards of ICS exposure. We investigated the toxicity of ICS using zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos as a mode. ICS exposure resulted in a dose-dependent increase in toxicity. High concentrations (7 and 14\u202f\u00b5g/ml) led to immediate mortality, while lower concentrations (0.1, 0.3, 0.5, and 1\u202f\u00b5g/ml) caused developmental defects such as yolk sac edema, skeletal malformations, and pericardial edema. Mortality rates increased with higher concentrations, confirming dose-dependent ICS exposure caused hypoactive locomotion, with reduced distance traveled and velocity\u00a0toxicity. Higher concentrations of ICS led to increased ROS levels and cellular damage, as evidenced by enhanced staining levels. A dose-dependent increase in lipid peroxidation (DPPP assay) and lipid accumulation (Nile red assay) was observed. Higher ICS concentrations led to significant oxidative damage to lipids and increased lipid deposition. Enzymatic assays showed that ICS exposure significantly decreased the activities of antioxidant enzymes SOD and CAT, indicating impaired antioxidant defense, while increasing LDH activity, signaling tissue damage and cytotoxicity. Gene expression analysis revealed downregulation of SOD1 and CAT genes, upregulation of inflammatory genes TNF-\u03b1 and IL-1\u03b2, and increased expression of the apoptotic gene p53 with decreased expression of Bcl-2 and BDNF. These findings highlight ICS's potential to cause oxidative stress, inflammation, apoptosis, and neurodevelopmental impairments.", 
    "abstract": "MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as crucial elements in the regulation of gene expression, playing a significant role in the underlying neurobiology of a wide range of neuropsychiatric disorders. This review examines the intricate involvement of miRNAs in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), Fragile X syndrome (FXS), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Tourette syndrome (TS), schizophrenia (SCZ), and mood disorders. This review highlights how miRNA dysregulation can illuminate the molecular pathways of these diseases and potentially serve as biomarkers for early diagnosis and prognosis. Specifically, miRNAs' ability to target genes critical to the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases, their role in the development of trinucleotide repeat and neurodevelopmental disorders, and their distinctive patterns in SCZ and mood disorders are discussed. The review also stresses the value of miRNAs in precision neuropsychiatry, where they could predict treatment outcomes and aid in disease management. Furthermore, the study of conserved miRNAs in model organisms like Drosophila underscores their broad utility and provides deeper mechanistic insights into their biological functions. This comprehensive examination of miRNAs across various conditions advocates for their integration into clinical practice, promising advancements in personalized healthcare for neurological and psychiatric conditions.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis is characterized by \u03b1-synuclein (\u03b1-syn) pathology, which is influenced by various factors such as neuroinflammation and senescence. Increasing evidence has suggested a pivotal role for Interleukin-17A(IL-17A) and Interleukin-17 Receptor A (IL-17RA) in PD, yet the trigger and impact of IL-17A/IL-17RA activation in PD remains elusive. This study observed an age-related increase in IL-17A and IL-17RA in the human central nervous system, accompanied by increased \u03b1-syn and senescence biomarkers. Interestingly, both levels of IL-17A and IL-17RA in PD patients were significantly elevated compared to age-matched controls, wherein the IL-17A was mainly present in neurons. This abnormal neuronal IL-17A activation in the PD brain was recapitulated in \u03b1-syn mouse models. Correspondingly, administration of recombinant IL-17A exacerbated pathological \u03b1-syn in both neuron and mouse models. Furthermore, IL-17A/IL-17RA pathway interventions via blocking antibody or shRNA-mediated knockdown can mitigate the effects of pathological \u03b1-syn. This study reveals an interplay between dysregulation of the IL-17A/IL-17RA pathway and \u03b1-syn, suggesting that regulating the IL-17A/IL-17RA pathway could modify PD progression by disrupting the detrimental cycle.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with both genetic and environmental factors; however, sporadic forms of PD account for >\u00a090\u00a0% of cases, and PD prevalence has doubled in the past 25 years. Depending on the importance of the environmental factors, various neurotoxins are used to induce PD both in vivo and in vitro. Unlike other neurodegenerative diseases, PD can be induced in vivo using specific neurotoxic chemicals. However, no chemically induced PD model is available because of the sporadic nature of PD. Rotenone is a pesticide that accelerates the induction of PD and exhibits the highest toxicity in fish, unlike other pesticides. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to establish a model exhibiting PD pathologies such as dysfunction of DArgic neuron, aggregation of \u0251-synuclein, and behavioral abnormalities, which are known features of PD pathology, by rotenone exposure at an environmentally relevant concentration (30\u00a0nM) in developing zebrafish embryos. Our results provide direct evidence for the association between PD and muscle degeneration by confirming rotenone-induced muscle atrophy. Therefore, we conclude that the rotenone-induced model presents non-motor and motor defects with extensive studies related to muscle atrophy.", 
    "abstract": "According to growing evidence, sleep disruption harms biological processes and circadian homeostasis. Diurnal motor symptom volatility in Parkinson's Disease (PD) has been extensively studied. Few studies examined seasonal variability in PD symptoms, some showing it and others not.\nTo investigate whether PD patients' deaths follow a rhythmic pattern due to circadian rhythm alterations.\nThis study used only unidentified patient databases. People with PD, ICD10 code G20, in at least one death certificate field were selected. The Continuous Wavelet Transform and Fourier Transform were checked for oscillation and its duration.\nThe 18-year analysis found 43,072 PD deaths. The Continuous Wavelet transform revealed a 351.87-day annual component (p < 0.05). Winter in the southern hemisphere saw more deaths, mainly in July. The Continuous Wavelet transform identified a significant daily component (p < 0.05) of 22.81 hours. Fatalities peaked around 9 a.m. Pneumonia is the leading cause of death in PD, and women and men have the same rhythm pattern.\nParkinson's disease mortality in Brazil follows a pattern. Using over 40.000 death certificates from 18 years, the authors found that Parkinson's patient fatalities rise in winter and peak in July at about 9 a.m. Sunlight reduction increases mortality risk in the long term. Low sunshine lowers temperatures, increasing short-term death risk. This is crucial because it prioritizes the sun, seasons, and circadian rhythm over low temperatures.", 
    "abstract": "We developed a novel method to measure the angle of subjective postural vertical (SPV) and showed that the SPV may be related to the exacerbation of the forward flexed posture.\nThe present study prospectively tested the effects of the subjective postural vertical on the exacerbation of the forward flexion of trunk (FFT) through long-term observation of Parkinson's disease patients.\nEvaluation of the posture included measuring FFT, the angle of lateral flexion of trunk, and the angle at the position that the patient subjectively perceived as the vertical position at a stationary upright position immediately after standing up at the time of initial observation, 6 months later, and 1 year later.\nThe SPV angles worsened significantly at 6 months and 1 year compared to the first measurements (9.3\u00a0\u00b1\u00a06.7\u00b0 vs. 10.8\u00a0\u00b1\u00a08.2\u00b0 and 10.6\u00a0\u00b1\u00a07.8\u00b0, P\u00a0<\u00a00.05), and the FFT angles worsened significantly at one year compared to the first measurements (11.1\u00a0\u00b1\u00a08.1\u00b0 vs. 12.2\u00a0\u00b1\u00a08.8\u00b0, P\u00a0=\u00a00.004). Furthermore, using a hierarchical multiple regression model, the difference in SPV from the first visit to the first half year was considered a factor contributing to annual FFT change (P\u00a0=\u00a00.002).\nThis longitudinal study of a large number of cases suggested that changes in SPV may precede changes in FFT.", 
    "abstract": "Disorders of glutamate metabolism and excessive release participat in multiple neuronal pathologies including ischemic stroke (IS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), or Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, herbal medicines have been widely used and have shown satisfactory results in the treatment of neurological disorders. Gastrodin is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) used for the treatment of nerve injuries, spinal cord injuries, and some central nervous system diseases as well. This research examines the neuroprotective effects of Gastrodin against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in neuronal cells.\nThe HERB database was used to explore the active ingredients and target genes of Gastrodia Elata. The STRING database and Cytoscape software were used to screen and construct the Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI). Furthermore, we used molecular docking to predict the potential targets of Gastrodin. The effects of Gastrodin were revealed by western blot, calcium imaging, membrane clamp, CCK8 and flow cytometry. Neuronal oxidative stress and damage were assessed by measuring malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity. Neuronal morphology was examined using Golgi-Cox staining. Finally, animal behavior was examined using novel object recognition and fear conditioning tests.\nWe have obtained 22 components such as TM10, TM17, TM25 (Gastrodin), and 281 targets such as AKT, EGFR, and CDK1 through network pharmacology. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses revealed these genes were significantly enriched in protein phosphorylation, protein serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase activity, apoptosis and HIF-1 signaling pathways, etc. A higher affinity between Gastrodin and AKT was revealed by PPI analysis and molecular docking. Further, Gastrodin significantly inhibited Ca\nGastrodin has neuroprotective effects against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity.", 
    "abstract": "The p.Ser71Arg RAB32 variant was recently associated with Parkinson's disease (PD).\nThe aim was to investigate the presence of RAB32 variants in a large multiethnic group of individuals affected and unaffected by PD.\nWe queried our proprietary database that contains exome/genome sequencing data of >180,000 individuals. Additional PD patients were genotyped, and proximal p.Ser71Arg-associated haplotypes were constructed.\np.Ser71Arg was present in 11 PD patients (73% from northern Italy) and in 35 individuals (89% from the Middle East and North Africa [MENA]) aged <50\u2009years without PD-relevant symptoms. It was found in-cis to a set of proximal single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Additional RAB32 variants were comparably frequent in PD and non-PD individuals.\nThe RAB32 p.Ser71Arg variant defines a cluster of PD patients in northern Italy. Globally, it is most prevalent in MENA. Our data indicate that p.Ser71Arg causes PD and that it occurred only once, through a founder event. Other RAB32 variants are unlikely to cause PD. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "The MDS-UPDRS has been available in English since 2008, showing satisfactory clinimetric results and being proposed as the new official benchmark scale for Parkinson's disease (PD), being cited as a core instrument for PD in the National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Common Data Elements program. For this reason, the MDS created guidelines for development of MDS-UPDRS official, clinimetrically validated translations.\nThis study presents the formal process used to obtain the officially approved Portuguese version of the MDS-UPDRS.\nThe study consisted of three phases: (1) Independent translation by Portuguese and Brazilian teams followed by a challenging consensus process that this article particularly emphasizes; (2) Cognitive pretest involving raters and patients from both Portugal and Brazil; (3) Validation test with a sample of 367 native Portuguese-speaking PD patients.\nThe overall factor structure of the Portuguese version was consistent with the English version based on a comparative fit index \u22650.96 for all four parts of the MDS-UPDRS.\nThis version can be designated as the official Portuguese version of the MDS-UPDRS.", 
    "abstract": "Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) models of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) have promoted an understanding of commonalities and differences within or across patient populations by revealing the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms contributing to disease pathology. Here, we focus on developing a human model for PPP2R5D-related NDD, called Jordan syndrome, which has been linked to Early-Onset Parkinson's Disease (EOPD). Here we sought to understand the underlying molecular and cellular phenotypes across multiple cell states and neuronal subtypes in order to gain insight into Jordan syndrome pathology. Our work revealed that iPSC-derived midbrain neurons from Jordan syndrome patients display significant differences in dopamine-associated pathways and neuronal architecture. We then evaluated a CRISPR-based approach for editing heterozygous dominant G-to-A mutations at the transcript level in patient-derived neural stem cells. Our findings show site-directed RNA editing is influenced by sgRNA length and cell type. These studies support the potential for a CRISPR RNA editor system to selectively edit mutant transcripts harboring G-to-A mutations in neural stem cells while providing an alternative editing technology for those suffering from NDDs.", 
    "abstract": "Despite the substantial impact of pain in Parkinson's, little attention has been given to understanding how individuals, especially those diagnosed at a younger age, perceive and manage their pain. This research aims to fill this gap by exploring the subjective experiences of pain in this population which is at a higher risk of experiencing pain.\nInterpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) was used as a methodological framework. Non-directive, in-depth interviews were conducted with four French-speaking participants with Parkinson's (diagnosed before 50\u2009years old, with various pain profiles), and analyzed using IPA.\nFour major themes emerged: (1) the history of the disease, (2) adaptation to the disease, (3) losses related to pain and (4) strategies deployed to regain control over pain. Results highlight the participants' processes of adaptation, despite the major identity disruption caused by the disease and pain. They also shed light on how the experience of pain is influenced by its relational dimension.\nOur results offer an understanding of the complexity and diversity of the experience of pain in this population. This complexity contributes to challenges in patients' ability to articulate and represent their pain accurately, advocating personalized, multidisciplinary pain management approaches within this population.\nIndividuals diagnosed with early-onset Parkinson\u2019s disease face unique challenges, such as increased susceptibility to pain.However, current pain management often overlooks the specific needs of this population.Our findings highlight the complex connection between pain and the disease in early-onset individuals and how participants\u2019 pain representations shape their adaptation to pain.This study outlines ways for health professionals to adopt a more targeted and individualized approach to managing pain in individuals diagnosed with early-onset Parkinson\u2019s disease.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are among the most common neurodegenerative disorders. These diseases are correlated with advancing age and are hence increasingly becoming prevalent in developed countries due to an increasingly aging demographic. Several tools are used to predict and diagnose these diseases, including pathological and genetic tests, radiological scans, and clinical examinations. Artificial intelligence is evolving to artificial general intelligence, which mimics the human learning process. Large language models can use an enormous volume of online and offline resources to gain knowledge and use it to perform different types of tasks. This work presents an understanding of two major neurodegenerative disorders, artificial general intelligence, and the efficacy of using artificial general intelligence in detecting and predicting these neurodegenerative disorders. A detailed discussion on detecting these neurodegenerative diseases using artificial general intelligence by analyzing diagnostic data is presented. An Internet of Things-based ubiquitous monitoring and treatment framework is presented. An outline for future research opportunities based on the challenges in this area is also presented.", 
    "abstract": "Digital gait monitoring is increasingly used to assess locomotion and fall risk. The aim of this work is to analyze the changes in the foot-floor contact sequences of Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients in the year following the implantation of Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). During their best-ON condition, 30 PD patients underwent gait analysis at baseline (T0), at 3 months after subthalamic nucleus DBS neurosurgery (T1), and at 12 months (T2) after subthalamic nucleus DBS neurosurgery. Thirty age-matched controls underwent gait analysis once. Each subject was equipped with bilateral foot-switches and a 5 min walk was recorded, including both straight-line and turnings. The walking speed, turning time, stride time variability, percentage of atypical gait cycles, stance, swing, and double support duration were estimated. Overall, the gait performance of PD patients improved after DBS, as also confirmed by the decrease in their UPDRS-III scores from 19.4 \u00b1 1.8 to 10.2 \u00b1 1.0 (T0 vs. T2) (", 
    "abstract": "Nilotinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets the Abelson tyrosine kinase (c-Abl) signaling pathway, is FDA-approved to treat chronic myeloid leukemia. Nilotinib has properties indicative of a possible utility in neuroprotection that have prompted exploration of repurposing the drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). AD is a progressive age-related neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the deposition of extracellular amyloid-\u03b2 plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. It is incurable and affects approximately 50 million patients worldwide. Nilotinib reduces c-Abl phosphorylation, amyloid-\u03b2 levels, and dopaminergic neuron degeneration in preclinical AD models. This study explores the effects of nilotinib on amyloid processing and mitochondrial functioning in the SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cell line. SH-SY5Y cells were exposed to nilotinib (1, 5, and 10 \u00b5M). Real-time PCR and immunoblot analysis were performed to quantify the expression of genes pertaining to amyloid-\u03b2 processing and neuronal health. Nilotinib did not significantly change APP, BACE1, or ADAM10 mRNA levels. However, BACE1 protein was significantly increased at 1 \u00b5M, and ADAM10 was increased at 10 \u00b5M nilotinib without affecting APP protein expression. Further, nilotinib treatment did not affect the expression of genes associated with neuronal health and mitochondrial functioning. Taken together, our findings do not support the efficacy of nilotinib treatment for neuroprotection.", 
    "abstract": "Microbes have inhabited the earth for hundreds of millions of years longer than humans. The microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) represents a bidirectional communication pathway. These communications occur between the central nervous system (CNS), the enteric nervous system (ENS), and the emotional and cognitive centres of the brain. The field of research on the gut-brain axis has grown significantly during the past two decades. Signalling occurs between the gut microbiota and the brain through the neural, endocrine, immune, and humoral pathways. A substantial body of evidence indicates that the MGBA plays a pivotal role in various neurological diseases. These include Alzheimer's disease (AD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), Rett syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), non-Alzheimer's neurodegeneration and dementias, fronto-temporal lobe dementia (FTLD), Wilson-Konovalov disease (WD), multisystem atrophy (MSA), Huntington's chorea (HC), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), depression, and schizophrenia (SCZ). Furthermore, the bidirectional correlation between therapeutics and the gut-brain axis will be discussed. Conversely, the mood of delivery, exercise, psychotropic agents, stress, and neurologic drugs can influence the MGBA. By understanding the MGBA, it may be possible to facilitate research into microbial-based interventions and therapeutic strategies for neurological diseases.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "In the original publication [...].", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Scabies is typically treated with scabicides like lindane, which poses a risk for acute neural toxicity. Lindane's prolonged use, particularly in agriculture, is linked to neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common neurodegenerative disorder. This study aimed to evaluate whether scabies patients, particularly those treated with topical lindane, are at increased risk of developing PD.\nA nationwide population-based cohort study was conducted using data from Taiwan's National Health Research Institutes claims database from 2000 to 2018. The study included 27,173 patients with scabies, matched to a control group, with both groups followed for up to 18 years. The primary outcome was the incidence of newly diagnosed PD, and the hazard ratio (HR) for PD was calculated, focusing on those treated with topical lindane.\nAmong the 54,346 patients, 1639 (3.0%) were newly diagnosed with PD, with 993 (60.6%) from the scabies group and 646 (39.4%) from the control group. Scabies patients had an adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) of 1.46 (95% CI 1.32-1.63) for developing PD compared to controls. However, patients treated with topical lindane had a significantly lower aHR for PD at 0.15 (95% CI 0.12-0.19; \nScabies patients are at a 1.46-fold increased risk of developing PD, but those treated with lindane exhibit a significantly lower risk, suggesting potential protective effects of lindane against PD.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Dairy farming practices significantly affect the nutritional and functional properties of milk. This study compares miRNAs in milk exosomes from extensive and intensive dairy systems and explores their potential implications for human consumers. Extensive systems are believed to produce milk of higher quality with better animal welfare compared to intensive systems. Milk samples from eight extensive and nine intensive dairy farms were analysed. Milk-derived extracellular vesicles were isolated through sequential ultracentrifugation and characterised through Dynamic Light Scattering and Nanosight to determine the size and the concentration of the extracellular vesicles, in addition to immunoblotting to ensure the presence of exosome-specific proteins in their membrane. miRNA levels were quantified using RT-qPCR, and metabolic pathways associated with miRNAs showing significant differences between farm groups were analysed. EVs from extensive farms had higher concentrations. Notably, ", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease psychosis (PDP) is a prevalent non-motor symptom associated with Parkinson's disease. The treatment options for PDP are limited, and its pharmacological management remains ambiguous. This study aimed to evaluate the existing evidence in relation to clinical practice.\nThis multi-methods study consisted of a systematic review of reviews, adhering to the PRISMA guidelines. The review was registered with PROSPERO. Following data extraction and assessment using the AMSTAR 2 tool, a narrative synthesis was performed. In the second phase of the study, a questionnaire was developed, validated, piloted, and distributed to the heads of specialized PD clinics in Germany and Austria.\nThe search resulted in the inclusion of eleven reviews. The quality of eight of these reviews was rated as high (n = 7) or moderate (n = 1). The reviews indicated that clozapine and pimavanserin demonstrated the highest efficacy and tolerability. Other antipsychotic medications either failed to alleviate PDP symptoms or resulted in distinct motor complications. The survey findings also favored clozapine for its efficacy in managing PDP and improving quality of life, although quetiapine was regarded as effective and pimavanserin was not available. Clinicians reported initiating antipsychotic treatment at various stages of PDP, with a tendency to reduce the dosage or discontinue D2 agonists or anticholinergics.\nThe reviewed literature and the survey results consistently favored clozapine for its efficacy and tolerability in treating PDP. It may be considered the first-line treatment, with pimavanserin as an alternative option.", 
    "abstract": "Research over the past years has compared the enantiomers (S)-ketamine (esketamine) and (R)-ketamine (arketamine) of the previously known racemic mixture called ketamine (R/S-ketamine). Esketamine has been found to be more potent, offering three times stronger analgesic effects and 1.5 times greater anesthetic efficacy than arketamine. It provides smoother anesthesia with fewer side effects and is widely used in clinical settings due to its neuroprotective, bronchodilatory, and antiepileptic properties. Approved by the FDA and EMA in 2019, esketamine is currently used alongside SSRIs or SNRIs for treatment-resistant depression (TRD). On the other hand, arketamine has shown potential for treating neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis, offering possible antidepressant effects and anti-inflammatory benefits. While esketamine is already in clinical use, arketamine's future depends on further research to address its safety, efficacy, and optimal dosing. Both enantiomers hold significant clinical value, with esketamine excelling in anesthesia, and arketamine showing promise in neurological and psychiatric treatments.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The successful introduction of medical devices (MDs) in real-world settings hinges on designing service processes that cater to stakeholders' needs. While human-centered design (HCD) approaches have been widely applied to service process innovation, the literature lacks a methodology that leverages MDs' key features to design service processes that meet stakeholders' needs. This study aims to fill this gap by developing a framework for the HCD of service processes enabled by MDs. The proposed framework mixes and adapts methodological elements from HCD and technology-enabled design approaches and proposes four new tools. The five-phase framework was applied to the design of a new Parkinson's disease diagnosis and treatment process (PD-DTP) enabled by two wearable MDs for the detection of motor symptoms. The case study lasted five months and involved 42 stakeholders in 21 meetings (interviews, focus groups, etc.). Thanks to the case study, the framework was tested, and a new PD-DTP that could benefit all stakeholders involved was identified. This study provides a framework that, in addition to contributing to theory, could assist MDs developers and healthcare managers in designing service processes that cater to stakeholders' needs by leveraging MDs' key features.", 
    "abstract": "As the global population ages, the incidence of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's is rapidly rising. These diseases present a significant public health challenge, as they severely impair cognitive and motor functions, ultimately leading to a substantial reduction in quality of life and placing a heavy burden on healthcare systems worldwide. Although several therapeutic agents have been developed to manage the symptoms of these diseases, their effectiveness is often limited, and there remains an urgent need for preventive strategies. Growing evidence indicates that bioactive compounds from natural products possess neuroprotective properties through antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, modulating key pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor-tropomyosin receptor kinase B-cAMP response element-binding protein (BDNF-TrkB-CREB), which are crucial for neuronal survival. These compounds may also reduce amyloid-beta and tau pathology, as well as enhance cholinergic neurotransmission by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase activity. By targeting oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and neurodegeneration, natural products offer a promising approach for both prevention and treatment. These findings suggest that natural products may be promising for preventing and treating neurodegenerative diseases. This review aims to explore the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, the limitations of current therapies, and the potential role of natural products as therapeutic agents.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive age-related neurodegenerative disorder affecting millions of people worldwide. Essentially, it is characterised by selective degeneration of dopamine neurons of the nigro-striatal pathway and intraneuronal aggregation of misfolded \u03b1-synuclein with formation of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. Moreover, specific small molecules of intermediary metabolism may have a definite pathophysiological role in PD. These include dopamine, levodopa, reduced glutathione, glutathione disulfide/oxidised glutathione, and the micronutrients thiamine and \u00df-Hydroxybutyrate. Recent research indicates that these small molecules can interact with \u03b1-synuclein and regulate its folding and potential aggregation. In this review, we discuss the current knowledge on interactions between \u03b1-synuclein and both the small molecules of intermediary metabolism in the brain relevant to PD, and many other natural and synthetic small molecules that regulate \u03b1-synuclein aggregation. Additionally, we analyse some of the relevant molecular mechanisms potentially involved. A better understanding of these interactions may have relevance for the development of rational future therapies. In particular, our observations suggest that the micronutrients \u00df-Hydroxybutyrate and thiamine might have a synergistic therapeutic role in halting or reversing the progression of PD and other neuronal \u03b1-synuclein disorders.", 
    "abstract": "The detection of early molecular mechanisms and potential biomarkers in Parkinson's disease (PD) remains a challenge. Recent research has pointed to novel roles for post-translational citrullination/deimination caused by peptidylarginine deiminases (PADs), a family of calcium-activated enzymes, in the early stages of the disease. The current study assessed brain-region-specific citrullinated protein targets and their associated protein-protein interaction networks alongside PAD isozymes in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) induced rat model of pre-motor PD. Six brain regions (cortex, hippocampus, striatum, midbrain, cerebellum and olfactory bulb) were compared between controls/shams and the pre-motor PD model. For all brain regions, there was a significant difference in citrullinated protein IDs between the PD model and the controls. Citrullinated protein hits were most abundant in cortex and hippocampus, followed by cerebellum, midbrain, olfactory bulb and striatum. Citrullinome-associated pathway enrichment analysis showed correspondingly considerable differences between the six brain regions; some were overlapping for controls and PD, some were identified for the PD model only, and some were identified in control brains only. The KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways identified in PD brains only were associated with neurological, metabolic, immune and hormonal functions and included the following: \"Axon guidance\"; \"Spinocerebellar ataxia\"; \"Hippo signalling pathway\"; \"NOD-like receptor signalling pathway\"; \"Phosphatidylinositol signalling system\"; \"Rap1 signalling pathway\"; \"Platelet activation\"; \"Yersinia infection\"; \"Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis\"; \"Human cytomegalovirus infection\"; \"Inositol phosphate metabolism\"; \"Thyroid hormone signalling pathway\"; \"Progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation\"; \"Oocyte meiosis\"; and \"Choline metabolism in cancer\". Some brain-region-specific differences were furthermore observed for the five PAD isozymes (PADs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6), with most changes in PAD 2, 3 and 4 when comparing control and PD brain regions. Our findings indicate that PAD-mediated protein citrullination plays roles in metabolic, immune, cell signalling and neurodegenerative disease-related pathways across brain regions in early pre-motor stages of PD, highlighting PADs as targets for future therapeutic avenues.", 
    "abstract": "DJ-1 is a vital enzyme involved in the maintenance of mitochondrial health, and its mutation has been associated with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD). Effective regulation of DJ-1 activity is essential for the well-being of mitochondria, and DJ-1 is thus a potential target for PD drug development. In this study, two peptides (", 
    "abstract": "The European olive tree, ", 
    "abstract": "The prevalence of psychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases is steadily increasing, placing a significant burden on both society and individuals. Given the intricate and multifaceted nature of these diseases, the precise underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Consequently, there is an increasing imperative to investigate the mechanisms, identify specific target sites for effective treatment, and provide for accurate diagnosis of patients with these diseases. Numerous studies have revealed significant alterations in the expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in psychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting their potential to increase the probability of these diseases. Moreover, these findings propose that lncRNAs could be used as highly valuable biomarkers in diagnosing and treating these diseases, thereby offering novel insights for future clinical interventions. The review presents a comprehensive summary of the origin, biological functions, and action mechanisms of lncRNAs, while exploring their implications in the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases and their potential utility as biomarkers.", 
    "abstract": "Individuals diagnosed with Parkinson's disease (PD) often exhibit heightened susceptibility to cardiac dysfunction, reflecting a complex interaction between these conditions. The involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in the development and progression of cardiac dysfunction and PD suggests a plausible commonality in some aspects of their molecular pathogenesis, potentially contributing to the prevalence of cardiac issues in PD. Mitochondria, crucial organelles responsible for energy production and cellular regulation, play important roles in tissues with high energetic demands, such as neurons and cardiac cells. Mitochondrial dysfunction can occur in different and non-mutually exclusive ways; however, some mechanisms include alterations in mitochondrial dynamics, compromised bioenergetics, biogenesis deficits, oxidative stress, impaired mitophagy, and disrupted calcium balance. It is plausible that these factors contribute to the increased prevalence of cardiac dysfunction in PD, suggesting mitochondrial health as a potential target for therapeutic intervention. This review provides an overview of the physiological mechanisms underlying mitochondrial quality control systems. It summarises the diverse roles of mitochondria in brain and heart function, highlighting shared pathways potentially exhibiting dysfunction and driving cardiac comorbidities in PD. By highlighting strategies to mitigate dysfunction associated with mitochondrial impairment in cardiac and neural tissues, our review aims to provide new perspectives on therapeutic approaches.", 
    "abstract": "Although the precise molecular mechanisms responsible for neuronal death and motor dysfunction in late-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) are unknown, evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction and neuroinflammation occur early, leading to a collective increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and oxidative stress. However, the lack of methods for tracking oxidative stress in the living brain has precluded its use as a potential biomarker. The goal of the current study is to address this need through the evaluation of the first superoxide (O", 
    "abstract": "Degeneration and death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the midbrain are the main pathological changes in Parkinson's disease (PD); however, the mechanism underlying the selective vulnerability of specific neuronal populations in PD remains unclear. Here, we used single-cell RNA sequencing to identify seven cell clusters, including oligodendrocytes, neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, microglia, synapse-rich cells (SRCs), and endothelial cells, in the substantia nigra of a rotenone-induced rat model of PD based on marker genes and functional definitions. We found that SRCs were a previously unidentified cell subtype, and the tight interactions between SRCs and other cell populations can be improved by icaritin, which is a flavonoid extracted from ", 
    "abstract": "Currently, the age structure of the world population is changing due to declining birth rates and increasing life expectancy. As a result, physicians worldwide have to treat an increasing number of age-related diseases, of which neurological disorders represent a significant part. In this context, there is an urgent need to discover new therapeutic approaches to counteract the effects of neurodegeneration on human health, and computational science can be of pivotal importance for more effective neurodrug discovery. The knowledge of the molecular structure of the receptors and other biomolecules involved in neurological pathogenesis facilitates the design of new molecules as potential drugs to be used in the fight against diseases of high social relevance such as dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), to cite only a few. However, the absence of comprehensive guidelines regarding the strengths and weaknesses of alternative approaches creates a fragmented and disconnected field, resulting in missed opportunities to enhance performance and achieve successful applications. This review aims to summarize some of the most innovative strategies based on computational methods used for neurodrug development. In particular, recent applications and the state-of-the-art of molecular docking and artificial intelligence for ligand- and target-based approaches in novel drug design were reviewed, highlighting the crucial role of in silico methods in the context of neurodrug discovery for neurodegenerative diseases.", 
    "abstract": "Cannabis sativa is known for producing over 120 distinct phytocannabinoids, with \u0394", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disease in which treatment often includes an exercise regimen. Exercise is neuroprotective in animal models of PD, and, more recently, human clinical studies have verified exercise's disease-modifying effect. Aerobic exercise and resistance training improve many of PD's motor and non-motor symptoms, while neuromotor therapy and stretching/flexibility exercises positively contribute to the quality of life in people with PD. Therefore, understanding the role of exercise in managing this complex disorder is crucial. Exerkines are bioactive substances that are synthesized and released during exercise and have been implicated in several positive health outcomes, including neuroprotection. Exerkines protect neuronal cells in vitro and rodent PD models in vivo. Aerobic exercise and resistance training both increase exerkine levels in the blood, suggesting a role for exerkines in the neuroprotective theory. Many exerkines demonstrate the potential for protecting the brain against pathological missteps caused by PD. Every person (people) with Parkinson's (PwP) needs a comprehensive exercise plan tailored to their unique needs and abilities. Here, we provide an exercise template to help PwP understand the importance of exercise for treating PD, describe barriers confronting many PwP in their attempt to exercise, provide suggestions for overcoming these barriers, and explore the role of exerkines in managing PD. In conclusion, exercise and exerkines together create a powerful neuroprotective system that should contribute to slowing the chronic progression of PD.", 
    "abstract": "While there is a link between homocysteine (Hcy), B12 and folic acid and neurodegeneration, especially in disorders like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, its role in Parkinson plus syndromes (PPS) has only been partially investigated. It appears that elevated Hcy, along with an imbalance of its essential vitamin cofactors, are both implicated in the development and progression of parkinsonian syndromes, which represent different disease pathologies, namely alpha-synucleinopathies and tauopathies. Attributing a potential pathogenetic role in hyperhomocysteinemia would be crucial in terms of improving the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of these syndromes and also for providing a new target for possible therapeutic intervention. The scope of this review is to focus on vitamin imbalance in PPS, with a special emphasis on the role of Hcy, B12 and folic acid in the neurodegenerative process and their implication in the therapeutic approach of these disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is characterized by a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway, leading to dopamine deficiency and motor impairments. Current treatments, such as L-DOPA, provide symptomatic relief but result in off-target effects and diminished efficacy over time. This study explores an alternative approach by investigating the activation of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis. Specifically, we explore the effects of phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibition and guanylate cyclase-C (GUCY2C) activation on tyrosine hydroxylase Ser40 phosphorylation and their impact on motor behavior in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) Parkinson's disease model.\nOur findings demonstrate that increasing cyclic nucleotide levels through PDE inhibition and GUCY2C activation significantly enhances tyrosine hydroxylase Ser40 phosphorylation. In a Pitx3-deficient mouse model, which mimics the loss of dopaminergic neurons seen in Parkinson's disease, Ser40 phosphorylation remained manipulable despite reduced tyrosine hydroxylase protein levels. Moreover, we observed no evidence of tyrosine hydroxylase degradation due to Ser40 phosphorylation, challenging previous reports. Furthermore, both PDE inhibition and GUCY2C activation resulted in improved motor behavior in the 6-OHDA Parkinson's disease mouse model, highlighting the potential therapeutic benefits of these approaches.\nThis study underscores the therapeutic potential of enhancing tyrosine hydroxylase Ser40 phosphorylation to improve motor function in Parkinson's disease. Both PDE inhibition and GUCY2C activation represent promising non-invasive strategies to modulate endogenous dopamine biosynthesis and address motor deficits. These findings suggest that targeting cyclic nucleotide pathways could lead to novel therapeutic approaches, either as standalone treatments or in combination with existing therapies like L-DOPA, aiming to provide more durable symptom relief and potentially mitigate neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease.", 
    "abstract": "Depression in Parkinson's disease (DPD) has a high incidence rate among patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). It is a common nonmotor symptom of PD that seriously affects the quality of life of patients. Thus, improving DPD is important for improving the quality of life of patients. Psychotherapy for depression is limited for many reasons, and only a few patients are able to benefit from this therapy. Several studies have demonstrated that relaxation therapy, playing, and exercise therapy are effective treatments for depression. In recent years, virtual reality (VR) has rapidly developed as a form of rehabilitation due to its immersive characteristics and accessibility. It has also been applied in the psychological treatment of phobia and anxiety. However, no relevant research on the treatment of DPD has been conducted using VR. This study aims to assess the effects of immersive VR-assisted training on patients with DPD.\nThis single-blind randomized controlled trial will recruit 74 patients with DPD. The patients will then be randomly allocated into two groups. The patients in the VR group (n\u2009=\u200937) will receive VR-assisted training (40\u00a0min) three times a week for 8\u00a0weeks. The patients in the non-VR training group (n\u2009=\u200937) will receive treatment as usual. The outcome measures will be assessed before intervention, and after 8\u00a0weeks, 3\u00a0months, and 6\u00a0months of the intervention. The primary outcomes will include the Hamilton Depression Scale-24. The secondary outcomes will include the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey questionnaire, neuroinflammation factors (brain-derived neurotrophic factor, interleukin-6, and C-reactive protein), and functional magnetic resonance imaging.\nThe traditional treatment of depression has limited resources and requires a lot of time and energy. It is not suitable for patients with PD having mobility difficulties and residing in remote areas. VR can make up for limitations in traditional treatment methods. An advantage of VR is that it makes patients more invested in active participation. This study may provide an improved method for the clinical treatment of patients with DPD, which is suitable for clinical decision-making and future practice.\nThe study has been registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR2200065843, November 16, 2022. https://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.html?proj=174551 {2a and 2b}.", 
    "abstract": "Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been used to treat various neurological disorders. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of rTMS on Parkinson's disease (PD) has not been fully elucidated. Neuroinflammation like regulatory T-cells (Tregs) appears to be a key modulator of disease progression in PD. If rTMS affects the peripheral Tregs in PD remains unknown.\nHere, we conducted a prospective clinical study (Chinese ClinicalTrials. gov: ChiCTR 2100051140) involving 54 PD patients who received 10-day rTMS (10\u00a0Hz) stimulation on the primary motor cortex (M1) region or sham treatment. Clinical and function assessment as well as flow cytology study were undertaken in 54 PD patients who were consecutively recruited from the department of neurology at Zhujiang hospital between September 2021 and January 2022. Subsequently, we implemented flow cytometry analysis to examine the Tregs population in spleen of MPTP-induced PD mice that received rTMS or sham treatment, along with quantitative proteomic approach reveal novel molecular targets for Parkinson's disease, and finally, the RNA interference method verifies the role of these new molecular targets in the treatment of PD.\nWe demonstrated that a 10-day rTMS treatment on the M1 motor cortex significantly improved motor dysfunction in PD patients. The beneficial effects persisted for up to 40\u00a0days, and were associated with an increase in peripheral Tregs. There was a positive correlation between Tregs and motor improvements in PD cases. Similarly, a 10-day rTMS treatment on the brains of MPTP-induced PD mice significantly ameliorated motor symptoms. rTMS reversed the downregulation of circulating Tregs and tyrosine hydroxylase neurons in these mice. It also increased anti-inflammatory mediators, deactivated microglia, and decreased inflammatory cytokines. These effects were blocked by administration of a Treg inhibitor anti-CD25 antibody in MPTP-induced PD mice. Quantitative proteomic analysis identified TLR4, TH, Slc6a3 and especially Syt6 as the hub node proteins related to Tregs and rTMS therapy. Lastly, we validated the role of Treg and rTMS-related protein syt6 in MPTP mice using the virus interference method.\nOur clinical and experimental studies suggest that rTMS improves motor function by modulating the function of Tregs and suppressing toxic neuroinflammation. Hub node proteins (especially Syt6) may be potential therapeutic targets.\nChinese ClinicalTrials, ChiCTR2100051140. Registered 15 December 2021, https://www.chictr.org.cn/bin/project/edit?pid=133691.", 
    "abstract": "Nanobodies (Nbs) are antibody fragments derived from heavy-chain-only IgG antibodies found in the Camelidae family as well as cartilaginous fish. Their unique structural and functional properties, such as their small size, the ability to be engineered for high antigen-binding affinity, stability under extreme conditions, and ease of production, have made them promising tools for diagnostics and therapeutics. This potential was realized in 2018 with the approval of caplacizumab, the world's first Nb-based drug. Currently, Nbs are being investigated in clinical trials for a broad range of treatments, including targeted therapies against PDL1 and Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), cardiovascular diseases, inflammatory conditions, and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. They are also being studied for their potential for detecting and imaging autoimmune conditions and infectious diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). A variety of methods are now available to generate target-specific Nbs quickly and efficiently at low costs, increasing their accessibility. This article examines these diverse applications of Nbs and their promising roles. Only the most recent articles published in the last five years have been used to summarize the most advanced developments in the field.", 
    "abstract": "Genetic testing for Parkinson's disease (PD) is infrequently performed due to perceptions of low utility. We investigated the personal utility in PD GENEration and how results lead to enrollment in additional research studies. Participants (n\u2009=\u2009972) underwent genetic testing, results disclosure, genetic counseling, and completed a survey examining the perceived personal utility of their results and interest in participating in additional studies. Most participants found their genetic test results useful, including satisfying curiosity (81%), feeling good about helping the medical community (80%), and having information to share with family (77%). There were no significant differences in responses based on result type. Forty-five percent of participants expressed interest in participating in research studies; whereas 16% of participants confirmed enrollment. Our results suggest that participants find personal utility in genetic testing regardless of results. Although participants may be interested in enrolling in additional research, they may need support and resources.", 
    "abstract": "Previous studies have established that rare biallelic SYNJ1 mutations cause autosomal recessive parkinsonism and Parkinson's disease (PD). We analyzed 8165 PD cases, 818 early-onset-PD (EOPD,\u2009<\u200950 years) and 70,363 controls. Burden meta-analysis revealed an association between rare nonsynonymous variants and variants with high Combined Annotation-Dependent Depletion score (>\u200920) in the Sac1 SYNJ1 domain and PD (Pfdr\u2009=\u20090.040). A meta-analysis of EOPD patients demonstrated an association between all rare heterozygous SYNJ1 variants and PD (Pfdr\u2009=\u20090.029).", 
    "abstract": "Neuronal cell death remains the principal pathophysiologic hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases and the main challenge for treatment strategies. Thioredoxin1 (Trx1) is a major cytoplasmic thiol oxidoreductase protein involved in redox signaling, hence a crucial player in maintaining neuronal health. Trx1 levels are notably reduced in neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, however, the impact of this decrease on neuronal physiology remains largely unexplored. This is mainly due to the nature of Trx1 redox regulatory role which is afforded by a rapid electron transfer to its oxidized protein substrates. During this reaction, Trx1 forms a transient bond with the oxidized disulfide bond in the substrate. This is a highly fast reaction which makes the identification of Trx1 substrates a technically challenging task. In this project, we utilized a transgenic mouse model expressing a Flag-tagged mutant form of Trx1 that can form stable disulfide bonds with its substrates, hence allowing identification of the Trx1 target proteins. Autophagy is a vital housekeeping process in neurons that is critical for degradation of damaged proteins under oxidative stress conditions and is interrupted in neurodegenerative diseases. Given Trx1's suggested involvement in autophagy, we aimed to identify potential Trx1 substrates following pharmacologic induction of autophagy in primary cortical neurons. Treatment with rapamycin, an autophagy inducer, significantly reduced neurite outgrowth and caused cytoskeletal alterations. Using immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry, we have identified 77 Trx1 target proteins associated with a wide range of cellular functions including cytoskeletal organization and neurodegenerative diseases. Focusing on neuronal cytoskeleton organization, we identified a novel interaction between Trx1 and RhoB which was confirmed in genetic models of Trx1 downregulation in primary neuronal cultures and HT22 mouse immortalized hippocampal neurons. The applicability of these findings was also tested against the publicly available proteomic data from Alzheimer's patients. Our study uncovers a novel role for Trx1 in regulating neuronal cytoskeleton organization and provides a mechanistic explanation for its multifaceted role in the physiology and pathology of the nervous system, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration.", 
    "abstract": "Heat shock proteins (HSPs) play a critical role in cellular stress responses and have been implicated in numerous diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD) and various cancers. Understanding the differential expression and functional implications of HSPs in these conditions is crucial for identifying potential therapeutic targets and biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis.\nWe utilized combined datasets (GSE6613 and GSE72267) to identify and analyze the heat shock-related genes differentially expressed in PD. Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) was performed to explore functional profiles, while LASSO regression was employed to screen potential PD biomarkers. In glioma, prognostic value, immune infiltration, and pathway enrichment associated with HSPA1L gene expression were assessed via Kaplan-Meier plots, ssGSEA, and enrichment analyses.\nIn PD, we identified 17 differentially expressed HSPs. Enrichment analysis revealed significant pathways related to protein homeostasis and cellular stress responses. LASSO regression pinpointed 12 genes, including HSPA1L, as significant markers for PD, with nomogram and calibration plots indicating predictive accuracy. Stratification based on HSPA1L expression in PD highlighted differentially active biological processes, immune responses, and metabolic disruptions. In the pan-cancer analysis, HSPA1L showed variable expression across cancer types and a significant correlation with patient survival and immune infiltration. In glioma, low HSPA1L expression was associated with worse overall survival, distinct immune infiltration patterns, and altered pathway activities.\nThis integrative study reveals the substantial role of HSPs, especially HSPA1L, in the pathogenesis and prognosis of PD and glioma. Our findings offer new perspectives on the molecular mechanisms underlying these diseases and propose HSPA1L as a potential prognostic biomarker and a target for therapeutic intervention.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, with an unknown etiology and no specific treatment. Emerging single-cell and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (sc/snRNA-seq) technologies have become instrumental in unravelling cellular heterogeneity and characterizing molecular signatures at single-cell resolution. Single-cell T cell receptor sequencing (scTCR-seq) and single-cell B cell receptor sequencing (scBCR-seq) technologies provide unprecedented opportunities to explore the immune repertoire diversity. These state-of-the-art technologies have been increasingly applied in PD research in the last five years, offering novel insights into the cellular susceptibilities and complex molecular mechanisms underlying PD pathogenesis. Herein we review recent advances in the applications of sc/snRNA-seq, scTCR-seq and scBCR-seq technologies in various PD models. Moreover, we focus on degenerative neurons, activated neuroglial cells, as well as pro-inflammatory immune cells, exploring their unique transcriptional landscapes in PD, as revealed by single-cell sequencing technologies. Finally, we highlight important challenges and the future directions of single-cell experiments in PD research.", 
    "abstract": "The study aimed to validate the protective effect of neuroglobin (Ngb) in a cell model of Parkinson's disease (PD) and explore its therapeutic potential. Lentivirus-Ngb (LvNgb) and siRNA-Ngb (siNgb) were used to achieve Ngb overexpression and knockdown, respectively, in a sporadic PD cell model. Apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry-based Annexin V/propidium iodide assays. Activation of the pro-apoptotic factor, Caspase-9, was detected by immunoblotting, and Complex I activities were detected by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Mitochondrial dysfunction was examined by measuring the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), NAD", 
    "abstract": "Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill (S. chinensis), a member of the Magnoliaceae family, is renowned for its distinctive medicinal attributes and is commonly employed in the treatment of disorders affecting the CNS.\nThe potential therapeutic effects of a lignan-enriched extract derived from Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill (LSC) on PD is assessed, which focuses on its mechanisms of action in addressing neuroinflammation.\nThe LSC has been obtained by purifying the ethyl alcohol extract of S. chinensis. The Orbitrap-MS method has been employed to analyze the chemical composition of the LSC. In LPS-induced BV2 cells, LSC-induced changes in M1/M2 type inflammatory cytokines have been examined using the Griess reaction, Elisa, JC-1, flow cytometry, IF, and WB methods. A model of PD has been established by treatment of MPTP in C57BL/6 mice. The effect of LSC on behavioral changes, inflammatory factor levels, expression of TH and IBA-1, and production of autophagy in the midbrain has been investigated by TEM, immunohistochemistry, Elisa, and WB.\nLSC has relieved sports injuries and pathological damage, and targeted the TRPV1-AMPK-NLRP3 signaling pathway, which affected neuroinflammation and autophagy in vivo. Furthermore, in vitro investigations demonstrated that LSC has activated M1/M2 transformation, its related inflammatory factors, and protein expressions of the NLRP3-Caspase1 signaling pathway in LPS-BV2 cells. The research notably demonstrated that the LSC promoted autophagy and suppressed inflammation through targeting TRPV1.\nIn the investigation, LSC focused on TRPV1 and controlled neuroinflammation-autophagy by regulating AMPK-NLRP3, which has been proven for the first time. The study has presented molecular data supporting the use of LSC in treating PD and offers references for developing drugs. Remarkably, LSC has the potential to be utilized as a therapeutic or health medication that could significantly decrease PD.", 
    "abstract": "A better understanding of the heterogeneity in the cognitive and mood symptoms of Parkinson's disease will require research conducted in large samples of patients. Fully online and remote research assessments present interesting opportunities for scaling up research but the feasibility and reliability of remote and fully unsupervised performance-based cognitive testing in individuals with Parkinson's disease is unknown. This study aims to establish the feasibility and reliability of this testing modality in Parkinson's patients.\nSixty-seven Parkinson's patients and 36 older adults completed two sessions of an at-home, online battery of five cognitive tasks and three self-report questionnaires. Feasibility was established by examining completion rates and data quality. Test-retest reliability was evaluated using the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC (2,1)).\nOverall completion rates and data quality were high with few participant exclusions across tasks. With regards to test-retest reliability, intraclass correlation coefficients were quite variable across measures extracted from a task as well as across tasks, but at least one standard measure from each task achieved moderate to good reliability levels. Self-report questionnaires achieved a higher test-retest reliability than cognitive tasks. Feasibility and reliability were similar between Parkinson's patients and older adults.\nThese results demonstrate that remote and unsupervised testing is a feasible and reliable method of measuring cognition and mood in Parkinson's patients that achieves levels of test-retest reliability that are comparable to those reported for standard in-person testing.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a neurodegenerative disease with pathological hallmarks and different clinical presentations. Recently, the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) promoted a new classification; specific combinations of the core clinical features identify different phenotypes, including PSP with Richardson's syndrome (PSP-RS) and PSP with predominant parkinsonism (PSP-P). Since speech disorders are very common in PSP, they were included in the MDS-PSP criteria as a supportive clinical feature in the form of hypokinetic, spastic dysarthria. However, little is known about how dysarthria presents across the different PSP variants. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the presence of differences in speech profile in a cohort of PSP-RS and PSP-P patients diagnosed according to the MDS-PSP criteria. Each patient underwent a neurological evaluation and perceptual and acoustic analysis of speech. Disease severity was rated using the Natural History and Neuroprotection in Parkinson plus syndromes-Parkinson plus scale (NNIPPS-PPS), including global score and sub-scores. Twenty-five patients (mean disease duration [standard deviation]\u2009=\u20093.32 [1.79]) were classified as PSP-RS, while sixteen as PSP-P (mean disease duration [standard deviation]\u2009=\u20093.47 [2.00]). These subgroups had homogeneous demographical and clinical characteristics, including disease severity quantified by the NNIPPS-PPS total score. Only the NNIPPS-PPS oculomotor function sub-score significantly differed, being more impaired in PSP-RS patients. No significant differences were found in all speech variables between the two groups. Speech evaluation is not a distinguishing feature of PSP subtypes in mid-stage disease.", 
    "abstract": "Patients with Parkinson disease (PD) frequently experience several behavioral symptoms, such as anxiety, apathy, irritability, agitation, impulsive control and obsessive-compulsive or REM sleep behavior disorders, which can cause severe psychosocial problems and impair quality of life. Occurring in 30-70% of PD patients, these symptoms can manifest at early stages of the disease, sometimes even before the appearance of classic motor symptoms, while others can develop later. Behavioral changes in PD show distinct patterns of brain atrophy, dopaminergic and serotonergic deterioration, altered neuronal connectivity in frontostriatal, corticolimbic, default mode and other networks due to a cascade linking molecular pathologies and deficits in multiple behavior domains. The changes suggest a multi-system neurodegenerative process in the context of a specific \u03b1-synucleinopathy inducing a variety of biochemical and functional changes, the neurobiological basis and clinical relevance of which await further elucidation. This paper is intended to review the recent literature with focus on the main behavioral disturbances in PD patients, their epidemiology, clinical features, risk factors, animal models, neuroimaging findings, pathophysiological backgrounds, and treatment options of these deleterious lesions.", 
    "abstract": "The purpose of the current study was to estimate the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) of sentence intelligibility in control speakers and in speakers with dysarthria due to multiple sclerosis (MS) and Parkinson's disease (PD).\nSixteen control speakers, 16 speakers with MS, and 16 speakers with PD were audio-recorded reading aloud sentences in habitual, clear, fast, loud, and slow speaking conditions. Two hundred forty nonexpert crowdsourced listeners heard paired conditions of the same sentence content from a speaker and indicated if one condition was more understandable than another. Listeners then used the Global Ratings of Change (GROC) Scale to indicate \nMCIDs derived from the ROC curves were invalid. However, the average magnitude of intelligibility difference derived valid and useful thresholds. The MCID of intelligibility was determined to be about 7% for a small amount of difference and about 15% for a large amount of difference.\nThis work demonstrates the feasibility of the novel experimental paradigm for collecting crowdsourced perceptual data to estimate MCIDs. Results provide empirical evidence that clinical tools for the perception of intelligibility by nonexpert listeners could consist of three categories, which emerged from the data (\"no difference,\" \"a little bit of difference,\" \"a lot of difference\"). The current work is a critical step toward development of a universal language with which to evaluate changes in intelligibility as a result of neurological injury, disease progression, and speech-language therapy.", 
    "abstract": "The lanthanide series elements are transition metals used as critical components of electronics, as well as rechargeable batteries, fertilizers, antimicrobials, contrast agents for medical imaging, and diesel fuel additives. With the surge in their utilization, lanthanide metals are being found more in our environment. However, little is known about the health effects associated with lanthanide exposure. Epidemiological studies as well as studies performed in rodents exposed to lanthanum (La) suggest neurological damage, learning and memory impairment, and disruption of neurotransmitter signaling, particularly in serotonin and dopamine pathways. Unfortunately, little is known about the neurological effects of heavier lanthanides. As dysfunctions of serotonergic and dopaminergic signaling are implicated in multiple neurological conditions, including Parkinson's disease, depression, generalized anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder, it is of utmost importance to determine the effects of La and other lanthanides on these neurotransmitter systems. We therefore hypothesized that early-life exposure of light [La (III) or cerium (Ce (III))] or heavy [erbium (Er (III)) or ytterbium (Yb (III))] lanthanides in ", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "The effect of subthalamic stimulation (STN-DBS) on patients' personal satisfaction with life and their Parkinson's disease (PD) treatment is understudied, as is its correlation with quality of life (QoL). Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that STN-DBS for PD enhances satisfaction with life and treatment. In a prospective, multicenter study with a 6-month follow-up involving 121 patients, we measured the main outcomes using the Satisfaction with Life and Treatment Scale (SLTS-7). Secondary outcomes included the eight-item PD Questionnaire (PDQ-8), European QoL Questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L), EQ-Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Non-Motor Symptom Scale (NMSS), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), and Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS). Longitudinal outcome changes, effect sizes (Cohen's d), and correlations between outcome changes were analyzed. SLTS-7 scores improved at the 6-month follow-up, particularly in the domains of 'satisfaction with physical health' and 'satisfaction with treatment'. Change scores correlated strongly (EQ-VAS), moderately (PDQ-8 SI and HADS), and weakly (UPDRS-activities of daily living and EQ-5D-3L) with other scales. Satisfaction with physical health, psychosocial well-being, or treatment was not related to UPDRS-motor examination. This study provides evidence that STN-DBS enhances patients' personal satisfaction with life and treatment. This satisfaction is associated with improvements in the QoL, daily activities, and neuropsychiatric aspects of PD rather than its motor aspects.", 
    "abstract": "Ventricular pre-excitation (VP) is a cardiac disorder characterized by the presence of an accessory pathway (AP) that bypasses the atrioventricular node (AVN), which, although often asymptomatic, exposes individuals to an increased risk of re-entrant supraventricular tachycardias and sudden cardiac death (SCD) due to rapid atrial fibrillation (AF) conduction. This condition is particularly significant in sports cardiology, where preparticipation ECG screening is routinely performed on athletes. Professional athletes, given their elevated risk of developing malignant arrhythmias, require careful assessment. Early identification of VP and proper risk stratification are crucial for determining the most appropriate management strategy and ensuring the safety of these individuals during competitive sports. Non-invasive tools, such as resting electrocardiograms (ECGs), ambulatory ECG monitoring, and exercise stress tests, are commonly employed, although their interpretation can sometimes be challenging. This review aims to provide practical tips and electrocardiographic clues for detecting VP beyond the classical triad (short PR interval, delta wave, and prolonged QRS interval) and offers guidance on non-invasive risk stratification. Although the diagnostic gold standard remains invasive electrophysiological study, appropriate interpretation of the ECG can help limit unnecessary referrals for young, often asymptomatic, athletes.", 
    "abstract": "Neurological diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), are the primary cause of disability worldwide and the second leading cause of death. The chronic nature of these conditions and the lack of disease-modifying therapies highlight the urgent need for developing effective therapies. To accomplish this, effective models of NDDs are required to increase our understanding of underlying pathophysiology and for evaluating treatment efficacy. Traditionally, models of NDDs have focused on the central nervous system (CNS). However, evidence points to a relationship between systemic factors and the development of NDDs. Cardiovascular disease and related risk factors have been shown to modify the cerebral vasculature and the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. These findings, combined with reports of changes to vascular density and blood-brain barrier integrity in other NDDs, such as Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease, suggest that cardiovascular health may be predictive of brain function. To evaluate this, we explore evidence for disruptions to the circulatory system in murine models of NDDs, evidence of disruptions to the CNS in cardiovascular disease models and summarize models combining cardiovascular disruption with models of NDDs. In this study, we aim to increase our understanding of cardiovascular disease and neurodegeneration interactions across multiple disease states and evaluate the utility of combining model systems.", 
    "abstract": "Cell-based therapies for drug-resistant epilepsy using induced pluripotent stem cell-derived inhibitory interneurons are now in early-phase clinical trials, building on findings from trials in Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Graft rejection and the need for immunosuppressive therapy post-transplantation pose potential barriers to more epilepsy patients becoming potential candidates for inhibitory interneurons transplantation surgery.\nThe present literature review weighs the evidence for and against human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-mediated graft rejection in PD and HD and examines the potential advantages and drawbacks to five broad approaches to cell-based therapies, including autologous cell culture and transplantation, in vivo reprogramming of glial cells using viral vectors, allogeneic transplantation using off-the-shelf cell lines, transplantation using inhibitory interneurons cultured from HLA-matched cell lines, and the use of hypoimmunogenic-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived inhibitory interneurons. The impact of surgical technique and associated needle trauma on graft rejection is also discussed.\nNon-systematic literature review.\nWhile cell-based therapies have enjoyed early successes in treating a host of central nervous system disorders, the immunologic reaction against surgical procedures and implanted materials has remained a major obstacle.\nAdapting cell-based therapies using iPSC-derived inhibitory interneurons for epilepsy surgery will similarly require surmounting the challenge of immunogenicity.", 
    "abstract": "The acute levodopa challenge is widely used to distinguish Parkinson's disease (PD) from atypical parkinsonian syndromes (APSs) such as multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). In APSs, very few patients present a clinically relevant response to levodopa. The aim of this study was to determine whether patients with atypical parkinsonism benefit from levodopa in any aspect of their multiple motor deficits despite the generally poor response. This retrospective study analyzed individual motor responses to the acute levodopa challenge using the MDS-UPDRS III in 47 PSP, 26 MSA, and 71 PD patients at Hannover Medical School. Despite the generally poor levodopa response in both PSP and MSA patients, bradykinesia and rigidity were the symptoms most notably affected by levodopa in PSP patients, while MSA patients experienced significant improvements in bradykinesia and action tremor. These findings underscore the variability in levodopa response among PSP and MSA patients and highlight the need for personalized treatment approaches in atypical parkinsonism.", 
    "abstract": "", 
    "abstract": "Kinematics, kinetics and biomechanics of human gait are widely investigated fields of research. The biomechanics of locomotion have been described as characterizing muscle activations and synergistic control, i.e., spatial and temporal patterns of coordinated muscle groups and joints. Both kinematic synergies and muscle synergies have been extracted from locomotion data, showing that in healthy people four-five synergies underlie human locomotion; such synergies are, in general, robust across subjects and might be altered by pathological gait, depending on the severity of the impairment. In this work, for the first time, we apply the mixed matrix factorization algorithm to the locomotion data of 15 healthy participants to extract hybrid kinematic-muscle synergies and show that they allow us to directly link task space variables (i.e., kinematics) to the neural structure of muscle synergies. We show that kinematic-muscle synergies can describe the biomechanics of motion to a better extent than muscle synergies or kinematic synergies alone. Moreover, this study shows that at a functional level, modular control of the lower limb during locomotion is based on an increased number of functional synergies with respect to standard muscle synergies and accounts for different biomechanical roles that each synergy may have within the movement. Kinematic-muscular synergies may have impact in future work for a deeper understanding of modular control and neuro-motor recovery in the medical and rehabilitation fields, as they associate neural and task space variables in the same factorization. Applications include the evaluation of post-stroke, Parkinson's disease and cerebral palsy patients, and for the design and development of robotic devices and exoskeletons during walking.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, affecting the lives of millions of people worldwide. Although the mechanism underlying PD pathogenesis is largely undefined, increasing evidence indicates that oxidative and nitrosative stresses play a crucial role in PD occurrence and development. Among them, the role of oxidative stress has been widely acknowledged, but there is relatively less attention given to nitrosative stress, which is mainly derived from peroxynitrite. In the present review, after briefly introducing the background of PD, we discuss the physiopathological function of peroxynitrite and especially highlight how overloaded peroxynitrite is involved in PD pathogenesis. Then, we summarize the currently reported fluorescence imaging-based peroxynitrite detection probes. Moreover, we specifically emphasize the probes that have been applied in PD research. Finally, we propose perspectives on how to develop a more applicable peroxynitrite probe and leverage it for PD theranostics. Conclusively, the present review broadens the knowledge on the pathological role of peroxynitrite in the context of PD and sheds light on how to develop and utilize fluorescence imaging-based strategies for peroxynitrite detection.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative disorders, particularly Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, continue to challenge modern medicine despite therapeutic advances. Orphan G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have emerged as promising targets in the central nervous system, offering new avenues for drug development. This review focuses on the structural biology of orphan GPCRs implicated in these disorders, providing a comprehensive analysis of their molecular architecture and functional mechanisms. We examine recent breakthroughs in structural determination techniques, such as cryo-electron microscopy and X-ray crystallography, which have elucidated the intricate conformations of these receptors. The review highlights how structural insights inform our understanding of orphan GPCR activation, ligand binding and signaling pathways. By integrating structural data with molecular pharmacology, we explore the potential of structure-guided approaches in developing targeted therapeutics toward orphan GPCRs. This structural-biology-centered perspective aims to deepen our comprehension of orphan GPCRs and guide future drug discovery efforts in neurodegenerative disorders.", 
    "abstract": "This paper presents a real-time wearable system designed to assist Parkinson's disease patients experiencing freezing of gait episodes. The system utilizes advanced machine learning models, including convolutional and recurrent neural networks, enhanced with past sample data preprocessing to achieve high accuracy, efficiency, and robustness. By continuously monitoring gait patterns, the system provides timely interventions, improving mobility and reducing the impact of freezing episodes. This paper explores the implementation of a CNN+RNN+PS machine learning model on a microcontroller-based device. The device operates at a real-time processing rate of 40 Hz and is deployed in practical settings to provide 'on demand' vibratory stimulation to patients. This paper examines the system's ability to operate with minimal latency, achieving an average detection delay of just 261 milliseconds and a freezing of gait detection accuracy of 95.1%. While patients received on-demand stimulation, the system's effectiveness was assessed by decreasing the average duration of freezing of gait episodes by 45%. These preliminarily results underscore the potential of personalized, real-time feedback systems in enhancing the quality of life and rehabilitation outcomes for patients with movement disorders.", 
    "abstract": "Conventional DBS (cDBS) for Parkinson's disease uses constant, predefined stimulation parameters, while the currently available adaptive DBS (aDBS) provides the possibility of adjusting current amplitude with respect to subthalamic activity in the beta band (13-30 Hz). This preliminary study on one patient aims to describe how these two stimulation modes affect basal ganglia dynamics and, thus, behavior in the long term. We collected clinical data (UPDRS-III and -IV) and subthalamic recordings of one patient with Parkinson's disease treated for one year with aDBS, alternated with short intervals of cDBS. Moreover, after nine months, the patient discontinued all dopaminergic drugs while keeping aDBS. Clinical benefits of aDBS were superior to those of cDBS, both with and without medications. This improvement was paralleled by larger daily fluctuations of subthalamic beta activity. Moreover, with aDBS, subthalamic beta activity decreased during asleep with respect to awake hours, while it remained stable in cDBS. These preliminary data suggest that aDBS might be more effective than cDBS in preserving the functional role of daily beta fluctuations, thus leading to superior clinical benefit. Our results open new perspectives for a restorative brain network effect of aDBS as a more physiological, bidirectional, brain-computer interface.", 
    "abstract": "Growing evidence suggests that neuroinflammation is not just a consequence of neurodegeneration in pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease or Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but it is rather a determinant factor, which plays a pivotal role in the onset and progression of these disorders. Neuroinflammation can affect cells and processes in the central nervous system (CNS) as well as immune cells, and might precede protein aggregation, which is a hallmark of the neurodegenerative process. Standard treatment methods are far from being able to counteract inflammation and delay neurodegeneration. Remarkably, phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors (PDE5is), which represent potent vasoactive drugs used as a first-line treatment for erectile dysfunction (ED), display important anti-inflammatory effects through cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) level stabilization. Since PDE5 hydrolyzes cGMP, several studies positioned PDE5 as a therapeutic target, and more specifically, PDE5is as potential alternative strategies for the treatment of a variety of neurological disorders. Indeed, PDE5is can limit neuroinflammation and enhance synaptic plasticity, with beneficial effects on cognitive function and memory. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of some of the main processes underlying neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration which may be potential targets for PDE5is, focusing on sildenafil, the most extensively studied. Current strategies using PDEis for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases will be summarized.", 
    "abstract": "Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's, affect millions worldwide and share a common feature: the aggregation of intrinsically disordered proteins into toxic oligomers that interact with cell membranes. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid-beta (A\u03b2) peptides accumulate and bind to plasma membranes, potentially disrupting cellular function. The complex interplay between amyloidogenic peptides and lipid membranes, particularly the role of anionic lipids, is crucial in disease pathogenesis but challenging to characterize experimentally. The literature presents conflicting results on the influence of anionic lipids on peptide aggregation kinetics, highlighting a knowledge gap. To address this, we used coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CG-MD) simulations to study interactions between a model amyloidogenic peptide, amyloid-\u03b2's K", 
    "abstract": "Motor and nonmotor fluctuations adversely impact the quality of life in Parkinson's disease (PD). Dysautonomia, a feature frequently associated with PD and a possible adverse effect of dopaminergic therapy, may be comorbid with fluctuations.\nWe sought to evaluate the effect of dysautonomia on motor and nonmotor fluctuations in PD.\nTwo hundred subjects with PD were evaluated in both on and off dopamine states to assess changes in symptoms related to dopaminergic fluctuations. Multivariable logistic regression was performed to assess the association of dysautonomia with motor, cognitive, and psychiatric worsening from on to off states with adjustment for disease duration, levodopa equivalent daily dosage (LEDD), and dopamine-agonist LEDD.\nSubjects with dysautonomia had greater odds of clinically meaningful change in motor features (odds ratio [OR]: 3.0), cognition (OR: 3.4), and anxiety (OR: 4.3) compared to those without dysautonomia.\nDysautonomia may be a contributory mechanism behind fluctuations in PD. The exact nature of this relationship deserves further evaluation. \u00a9 2024 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": "Orthostatic tremor (OT) is a rare movement disorder characterized by a feeling of unsteadiness and a high-frequency tremor in the legs (13-18\u2009Hz) relieved by sitting or walking.\nThe aims were to study the brain electrophysiology captured chronically in a person with medication-refractory OT while standing and walking and in the semi-recumbent position using bilateral ventral intermedius nucleus deep brain stimulation (DBS) (Medtronic Percept PC) and to describe the clinical use of closed-loop DBS.\nA sensing survey was used to capture baseline local field potentials (LFPs) while standing. Livestreamed LFPs were synchronized with data collected from two accelerometers (legs) and gait analysis during OFF stimulation and continuous and closed-loop DBS.\nStrong oscillatory coupling between thalamic LFP and leg tremor with significant coherence at 14.65\u2009Hz was found during weight-bearing. Single-threshold adaptive DBS (sensing at this frequency) was superior to continuous stimulation in reducing tremor and stimulation-related gait ataxia.\nThis study provides new insights into both the pathophysiology and management of OT. \u00a9 2024 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "In DBS for patients with PD, STN is the most common DBS target with the sweet point located dorsal ipsilaterally adjacent to the pyramidal tract. During awake DBS lead implantation, macrostimulation is performed to test the clinical effects and side effects especially the pyramidal tract side effect (PTSE) threshold. A too low PTSE threshold will compromise the therapeutic stimulation window. When DBS lead implantation is performed under general anaesthesia (GA), there is a lack of real time feedback regarding the PTSE. In this study, we evaluated the macrostimulation-induced PTSE by electromyography (EMG) during DBS surgery under GA. Our aim is to investigate the prediction of post-operative programming PTSE threshold using EMG-based PTSE threshold, and its potential application to guide intra-operative lead implantation.\n44 patients with advanced PD received STN DBS under GA were studied. Intra-operative macrostimulation via EMG was assessed from the contralateral upper limb. EMG signal activation was defined as the amplitude doubling or greater than the base line. In the first programming session at one month post-operation, the PTSE threshold was documented. All patients were followed up for one year to assess clinical outcome.\nAll 44 cases (88 sides) demonstrated activations of limb EMG via increasing amplitude of macrostimulation the contralateral STN under GA. Revision tracts were explored in 7 patients due to a low EMG activation threshold (<= 2.5\u2005mA). The mean intraoperative EMG-based PTSE threshold was 4.3\u2005mA (SD 1.2\u2005mA, Range 2.0-8.0\u2005mA), programming PTSE threshold was 3.7\u2005mA (SD 0.8\u2005mA, Range 2.0-6.5\u2005mA). Linear regression showed that EMG-based PTSE threshold was a statistically significant predictor variable for the programming PTSE threshold (\nDuring STN DBS lead implantation under GA, PTSE threshold can be tested by EMG through macrostimulation. It can provide real-time information on the laterality of the trajectory and serves as reference to guide intra-operative DBS lead placement.", 
    "abstract": "2023 was an important year for research in traumatic brain injury (TBI), particularly as it concerned interests in neuropathology. After reviewing the literature, we present the advancements that we felt were of particular importance to the neuropathology community. Highlighted are articles that report upon: (1) the first large-cohort assessment for the neuropathology of intimate partner violence, (2) the assessment of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in young athletes, (3) the observation of cortical sulcal depth vascular changes in CTE, (4) a proposal for a tau immunohistochemical panel to evaluate complex cases of CTE in the context of multiple tauopathies, (5) the relationship of TBI and/or CTE with TDP-43 pathology, (6) repetitive TBI inducing pathology in ", 
    "abstract": "microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of non-coding RNAs that play important roles in gene regulation. miRNAs are transcribed from DNA sequences into primary miRNAs and then processed into precursor miRNAs and mature miRNAs. miRNA gene counts in chromosomes for different species have been studied.\nCertain chromosomes have higher numbers of miRNA genes in all species, such as the X chromosome, while the Y chromosome has the fewest or no miRNA genes. miRNA counts in different chromosomes might have a positive correlation with coding gene counts in many species. In this study, a regression model was used to find the relationship between the miRNA count and the coding gene count across human chromosomes, and miRNA counts for 23 human chromosomes were predicted based on this regression model. In addition, the chromosome locations for the miRNA biomarkers of major depression, diabetes, Parkinson's disease, and COVID-19 are discussed.\nThe results reveal that miRNA biomarkers of these diseases are located in various chromosomes. The dispersion of miRNA locations across different chromosomes might explain the complication of the pathology of these diseases. Moreover, diabetes and COVID-19 have the largest number of miRNA biomarkers from Chromosome X.\nAs Chromosome X is a sex chromosome, this phenomenon may explain the gender difference in the prevalence or severity of diabetes and COVID-19. The significant gender difference in the prevalence or severity of diabetes and COVID-19 might be due to the regulation function of their miRNA biomarkers from Chromosome X.", 
    "abstract": "The disability and mortality related to Parkinson's disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disease, are increasing globally at a faster rate than other neurological disorders. With no permanent cure for PD, there is an urgent need to develop novel and effective anti-PD drugs.\nTargeting monoamine oxidases (MAO), which catalyze the breakdown of neurotransmitters, is one way to treat neurodegenerative diseases. In this context, an initial molecular docking of twenty designed sulfonyl derivatives of benzimidazole against monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) associated with PD was conducted using AutoDock Vina.\nThe results were compared with those of the conventional inhibitors, selegiline and rasagiline. Based on the docking score, the in-silico pharmacokinetic properties (ADME), drug-likeness, and toxicity profiles of the newly synthesized molecules were examined using SwissADME, PreADMET, ProTox-3.0, vNN, and ADMETlab web tools. Then, twelve potential derivatives were synthesized and characterized by IR, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, 19F-NMR (for some compounds), and mass spectrometry. Derivatives 2cj and 1bj were the two molecules having the best binding affinity of -11.9 and -11.8 kcal/mol, respectively, against MAOB, exhibiting a higher binding affinity compared to that of some commercially available drugs. A 50 ns MD simulation run was performed to observe the stability of the top two docked complexes, MAO-B-2cj and MAO-B-1bj, in order to further validate the efficacy of those two substances. Moreover, the MM-PBSA method was used to calculate the final, binding free energy of the simulated (MAO-B-2cj) complex.\nThis study indicates that the binding affinity of most of the hits was superior to that of known MAO inhibitors; therefore, these newly synthesized benzimidazole derivatives may be developed into essential drug candidates for the treatment of PD.", 
    "abstract": "In Parkinson's patients, intestinal dysbiosis can occur years before clinical diagnosis, implicating the gut and its microbiota in the disease. Recent evidence suggests the gut microbiota may trigger body-first Parkinson Disease (PD), yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate how a dysbiotic microbiome through intestinal immune alterations triggers PD-related neurodegeneration.\nTo determine the impact of gut dysbiosis on the development and progression of PD pathology, wild-type male C57BL/6 mice were transplanted with fecal material from PD patients and age-matched healthy donors to challenge the gut-immune-brain axis.\nThis study demonstrates that patient-derived intestinal microbiota caused midbrain tyrosine hydroxylase positive (TH\u2009+) cell loss and motor dysfunction. Ileum-associated microbiota remodeling correlates with a decrease in Th17 homeostatic cells. This event led to an increase in gut inflammation and intestinal barrier disruption. In this regard, we found a decrease in CD4\u2009+\u2009cells and an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines in the blood of PD transplanted mice that could contribute to an increase in the permeabilization of the blood-brain-barrier, observed by an increase in mesencephalic Ig-G-positive microvascular leaks and by an increase of mesencephalic IL-17 levels, compatible with systemic inflammation. Furthermore, alpha-synuclein aggregates can spread caudo-rostrally, causing fragmentation of neuronal mitochondria. This mitochondrial damage subsequently activates innate immune responses in neurons and triggers microglial activation.\nWe propose that the dysbiotic gut microbiome (dysbiome) in PD can disrupt a healthy microbiome and Th17 homeostatic immunity in the ileum mucosa, leading to a cascade effect that propagates to the brain, ultimately contributing to PD pathophysiology. Our landmark study has successfully identified new peripheral biomarkers that could be used to develop highly effective strategies to prevent the progression of PD into the brain.", 
    "abstract": "Variants in mitochondrial genomes (mtDNA) can cause various neurological and mitochondrial diseases such as mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Given the 16\u00a0kb length of mtDNA, continuous sequencing is feasible using long-read sequencing (LRS). Herein, we aimed to show a simple and accessible method for comprehensive mtDNA sequencing with potential diagnostic applications for mitochondrial diseases using the compact and affordable LRS flow cell \"Flongle.\" Whole mtDNA amplification (WMA) was performed using genomic DNA samples derived from four patients with mitochondrial diseases, followed by LRS using Flongle. We compared these results to those obtained using Cas9 enrichment. Additionally, the accuracy of heteroplasmy rates was assessed by incorporating mtDNA variants at equimolar levels. Finally, mtDNA from 19 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) was sequenced using Flongle to identify disease risk-associated variants. mtDNA variants were detected in all four patients with mitochondrial diseases, with results comparable to those obtained from Cas9 enrichment. Heteroplasmy levels were accurately detected (r", 
    "abstract": "Dual cognitive-walking treadmill training (DTT), designed to replicate real-life walking conditions, has shown promise effect in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD). This study aims to compare the effects of DTT versus single treadmill training (STT) on cognitive and walking performance under both single and dual task conditions, as well as on fall, patients' subjective feeling, and quality of life. Sixteen individuals with PD were randomly assigned to DTT or STT group and underwent 8 weeks of training. The DTT group received treadmill training with cognitive loads, while the STT group received treadmill training without cognitive load. Outcome measures included gait parameters (speed, step length) and cognitive performance (reaction time, accuracy, composite score) under both single and dual task conditions. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale-part III (UPDRS-III), Falls Efficacy Scale (FES), Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC), and Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39) were also measured. Both DTT and STT groups showed increased comfortable walking speed and step length. Only the DTT group demonstrated significant improvements in cognitive composite score under both single and dual task conditions, as well as UPDRS-III, FES, and PDQ-39(p\u2009<\u20090.05). DTT can enhance cognitive function without compromising walking ability and also have real-world transferability.", 
    "abstract": "Variants in GBA1 result in dysregulated sphingolipids. We investigated five CSF d18:1 sphingolipid species in a longitudinal multicenter cohort comprising people with Parkinson's Disease and Dementia with Lewy bodies with and without GBA1 variants and healthy controls. We found no increase of sphingolipid species in heterozygous GBA1 variant participants and no effect on development of cognitive impairment. Thus, CSF d18:1 sphingolipids are not suitable as state markers in Parkinson's Disease.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a prevalent, progressive neurodegenerative disease with motor and non-motor symptoms. Vagus Nerve Stimulation (VNS) has emerged as a potential therapeutic approach for PD, but published research on this topic varies widely. This scoping review maps existing literature on VNS for PD, highlighting stimulation methods, operational parameters, safety profiles, neurophysiological mechanisms, and clinical outcomes in human and animal models. Online databases were used to identify 788 papers published between 2013 and 2023, from which 17 publications on invasive and non-invasive VNS in PD were selected. Studies showed high variability in VNS parameters and study design. Evidence in animal models and human subjects suggests potential neurophysiological effects on PD-related pathology and motor function improvements. However, significant gaps in the literature remain. Future research should include rigorous reporting of study design, standardization of stimulation parameters, and larger sample sizes to ultimately facilitate translation of VNS into clinical practice.", 
    "abstract": "We examined the effect of annual exposure to fine particulate matter (PM", 
    "abstract": "The ability of serum biomarkers to predict the prognosis and response to deep-brain stimulation (DBS) therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients is promising. Here, we showed that NfL differed between healthy individuals and PD patients and that changes in NfL, GFAP, and BDNF occurred only transiently after DBS surgery. Therefore, subthalamic stimulation does not promote neurodegeneration, and these biomarkers do not serve as clinical improvement endpoints in PD DBS patients.", 
    "abstract": "The phenoconversion trajectory from idiopathic/isolated Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (iRBD) towards either Parkinson's Disease (PD) or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) is currently uncertain. We investigated the capability of baseline brain [", 
    "abstract": "Ultrasound neuromodulation is a promising noninvasive technique capable of penetrating the skull and precisely targeting deep brain regions with millimeter accuracy. Recent studies have demonstrated that transcranial ultrasound stimulation (TUS) of sleep-related brain areas can induce sleep in mice and even trigger a reversible, hibernation-like state without causing damage. Beyond its utility in preclinical models of central nervous system diseases, such as epilepsy, tremors, Alzheimer's disease, and depression, TUS holds significant potential for clinical translation. Given that many neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, are associated with sleep abnormalities, leveraging clinical TUS applications for these diseases also creates a pathway for translating this technology to sleep modulation in human use. These findings highlight the potential for ultrasound neuromodulation to advance neuroscience research and clinical applications in sleep control.", 
    "abstract": "Increasing evidence indicates the mechanism of overlapping immune dysfunction and inflammation disorder shared by ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and neurodegenerative diseases (NDs). However, the exact correlation between the two is still unclear. Different studies have reported inconsistent results about how AS and NDs are related.\nThis study aimed to investigate the association between AS and risk of NDs.\nWe searched electronic databases including PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials to identify studies reporting relationship between NDs risk and AS published before April 10th, 2024. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated. All analyses were conducted using Stata V.12.0 software.\nA total of 15 comparisons out of 10 studies involving 851,936 participants were included. The results showed that the risk of NDs was higher among AS patients than those who were not (OR 1.36, 95% CI 1.15-1.60, P < 0.001). In addition, subgroup analysis showed that AS was associated with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) development (OR 1.55, 95% CI 1.31-1.83, P < 0.001), whereas there is no observed association with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia (OR 1.22, 95% CI 0.96-1.55, P = 0.098; OR 1.34, 95% CI 0.96-1.87, P = 0.089, respectively).\nThe current meta-analysis identified AS as a risk factor for the development of NDs. Clinicians should be aware of the potential association between these diseases. Further research is necessary to confirm the causal relationship and underlying mechanisms between AS and NDs.", 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease is a heterogenous neurodegenerative disorder with a wide variety of motor and non-motor symptoms. This study used resting-state fMRI to identify the neural substrates of PD and explore the acute neural response to acupuncture stimulation in 74 participants (50 patients with PD and 24 healthy controls). All participants with PD were evaluated for the severity of symptoms using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and Balance Master. The z-transformed fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation analysis showed significant differences between the PD and healthy controls in the cerebellar regions, which are thought to play a crucial role in PD pathology. Subsequently, seed-based functional connectivity of the cerebellum with the frontal, parietal, and limbic regions was identified as a potential diagnostic marker for PD. In addition, spontaneous neural activity in the precentral gyrus and thalamus was significantly associated with the severity of PD symptoms. Neural activity in the precentral gyrus, precuneus, and superior temporal gyrus showed a significant correlation with Balance Master indicators. Finally, acupuncture stimulation at GB34 significantly reduced the activity of the occipital regions in patients with PD, but this effect was not observed in healthy controls. The mixed-effects analysis revealed an interaction effects between group and acupuncture stimulation, suggesting that the modulatory effects of acupuncture could differ depending on disease status. Therefore, this study suggests the neural substrates of PD and potential underpinnings of acute neural response to acupuncture stimulation.", 
    "abstract": "In human walking, the legs and other body parts coordinate to produce a rhythm with appropriate phase relationships. From the point of view for rehabilitating gait disorders, such as Parkinson Disorders, it is important to understand the control mechanism of the gait rhythm. A previous study showed that the antiphase relationship of the two legs during walking is not strictly controlled using the reduction of the motion of the legs during walking to coupled phase oscillators. However, the control mechanisms other than those of the legs remains unknown. In particular, the trunk moves in tandem with the legs and must play an important role in stabilizing walking because it is above the legs and accounts for more than half of the mass of the human body. This study aims to uncover the control mechanism of the leg-trunk coordination in the sagittal plane using the coupled phase oscillators model and Bayesian estimation. We demonstrate that the leg-trunk coordination is not strictly controlled, as well as the interleg coordination.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Knowledge on the genetic basis of Parkinson's disease has grown tremendously since the discovery of the first monogenic form, caused by a mutation in \u03b1-synuclein, and with the subsequent identification of multiple other causative genes and associated loci. Genetic studies provide insights into the phenotypic heterogeneity and global distribution of Parkinson's disease. By shedding light on the underlying biological mechanisms, genetics facilitates the identification of new biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Several clinical trials of genetics-informed therapies are ongoing or imminent. International programmes in populations who have been under-represented in Parkinson's disease genetics research are fostering collaboration and capacity-building, and have already generated novel findings. Many challenges remain for genetics research in these populations, but addressing them provides opportunities to obtain a more complete and equitable understanding of Parkinson's disease globally. These advances facilitate the integration of genetics into the clinic, to improve patient management and personalised medicine.", 
    "abstract": "Li", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders. The increasing demand for high-accuracy forecasts of disease progression has led to a surge in research employing multi-modality variables for prediction. In this review, we selected articles published from 2016 through June 2024, adhering strictly to our exclusion-inclusion criteria. These articles employed a minimum of two types of variables, including clinical, genetic, biomarker, and neuroimaging modalities. We conducted a comprehensive review and discussion on the application of multi-modality approaches in predicting PD progression. The predictive mechanisms, advantages, and shortcomings of relevant key modalities in predicting PD progression are discussed in the paper. The findings suggest that integrating multiple modalities resulted in more accurate predictions compared to those of fewer modalities in similar conditions. Furthermore, we identified some limitations in the existing field. Future studies that harness advancements in multi-modality variables and machine learning algorithms can mitigate these limitations and enhance predictive accuracy in PD progression.", 
    "abstract": "Gene therapy has made substantial progress in the treatment of the genetic diseases, focussing on the reduction of characteristics of recessive/dominant disorders, as well as various cancers. Extensive research has been conducted in the past few decades to investigate the application of nanotechnology and CRISPR/Cas technology in gene therapy. Nanotechnology due to attributes such has targeted drug delivery, controlled release, scalability and low toxicity has gained attention of the medical world. CRISPR/Cas9 system is considered as an impactful genome editing tool in the area of next-generation therapeutics and molecular diagnostics. CRISPR technology emphasises on gene editing, gene regulation modulation, and formulation of defined genetic changes. Its applications in treatment of the genetic disorders are extended beyond traditional therapies. These techniques are being explored as treatment of several genetic disorders including Duchenne muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington disease. Despite considerable therapeutic potential of gene therapy, several obstacles must be addressed before it can be widely adopted in clinical practice, particularly in terms of ensuring safety and effectiveness. As research advances in this captivating field, these therapies will become the primary treatments and will have significant beneficial effects on the lives of patients with genetic disorders.", 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": null, 
    "abstract": "Levodopa-entacapone-carbidopa intestinal gel (LECIG) infusion was introduced to the Swedish market in 2019 for Parkinson's disease (PD) with motor fluctuations. Long-term data are lacking.\nTo study long-term data on LECIG treatment.\nA retrospective analysis of the first 24 patients receiving LECIG in Sweden from 2019 to 2023.\nFive of 24 (21%) patients discontinued LECIG because of side effects, mostly diarrhea. Eight of the 24 (33%) patients died while receiving LECIG. Eleven of 24 (46%) patients were still on LECIG. Median (range) for disease and treatment duration was 19 (9-30) and 3.6 (3.1-4.0) years, respectively, whereas health-related quality of life scales showed median (interquartile range; n) Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire 8-item summary index scores of 38 (4; n\u2009=\u20097), EuroQol 5D scores of 0.59 (0.17; n\u2009=\u20097), and EQ-5D visual analogue scale scores of 65 (10; n\u2009=\u20097).\nLECIG infusion is a viable treatment option for PD patients with motor fluctuations, for up to 4\u2009years in our cohort.", 
    "abstract": "The clinical manifestation of Parkinson's disease exhibits significant heterogeneity in the prevalence of non-motor symptoms and the rate of progression of motor symptoms, suggesting that Parkinson's disease can be classified into distinct subtypes. In this study, we aimed to explore this heterogeneity by identifying a set of subtypes with distinct patterns of spatiotemporal trajectories of neurodegeneration. We applied Subtype and Stage Inference (SuStaIn), an unsupervised machine learning algorithm that combined disease progression modelling with clustering methods, to cortical and subcortical neurodegeneration visible on 3 T structural MRI of a large cross-sectional sample of 504 patients and 279 healthy controls. Serial longitudinal data were available for a subset of 178 patients at the 2-year follow-up and for 140 patients at the 4-year follow-up. In a subset of 210 patients, concomitant Alzheimer's disease pathology was assessed by evaluating amyloid-\u03b2 concentrations in the CSF or via the amyloid-specific radiotracer 18F-flutemetamol with PET. The SuStaIn analysis revealed three distinct subtypes, each characterized by unique patterns of spatiotemporal evolution of brain atrophy: neocortical, limbic and brainstem. In the neocortical subtype, a reduction in brain volume occurred in the frontal and parietal cortices in the earliest disease stage and progressed across the entire neocortex during the early stage, although with relative sparing of the striatum, pallidum, accumbens area and brainstem. The limbic subtype represented comparative regional vulnerability, which was characterized by early volume loss in the amygdala, accumbens area, striatum and temporal cortex, subsequently spreading to the parietal and frontal cortices across disease stage. The brainstem subtype showed gradual rostral progression from the brainstem extending to the amygdala and hippocampus, followed by the temporal and other cortices. Longitudinal MRI data confirmed that 77.8% of participants at the 2-year follow-up and 84.0% at the 4-year follow-up were assigned to subtypes consistent with estimates from the cross-sectional data. This three-subtype model aligned with empirically proposed subtypes based on age at onset, because the neocortical subtype demonstrated characteristics similar to those found in the old-onset phenotype, including older onset and cognitive decline symptoms (P < 0.05). Moreover, the subtypes correspond to the three categories of the neuropathological consensus criteria for symptomatic patients with Lewy pathology, proposing neocortex-, limbic- and brainstem-predominant patterns as different subgroups of \u03b1-synuclein distributions. Among the subtypes, the prevalence of biomarker evidence of amyloid-\u03b2 pathology was comparable. Upon validation, the subtype model might be applied to individual cases, potentially serving as a biomarker to track disease progression and predict temporal evolution.", 
    "abstract": "Intracellular sensing technologies necessitate a delicate balance of spatial resolution, sensitivity, biocompatibility, and stability. While existing methods partially fulfill these criteria, none offer a comprehensive solution. Nanodiamonds (NDs) harboring nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers have emerged as promising candidates due to their sensing capabilities under biological conditions and their ability to meet all aforementioned requirements. This study focuses on expanding the application of NDs and NV center-based sensing to neuronal contexts by investigating their functionalization and subsequent effects on three distinct cell lines relevant to neurodegenerative disease research. Our study concentrates on positioning fluorescent NDs (FNDs) with NV center point defects onto neuronal cell surfaces. Achieving this through specific antibody attachment enhances the proximity of FND to neurites, facilitating the detection of local action potentials. Targeting voltage-dependent calcium channels (Cav2.2) with biotin-streptavidin-bound antibodies enables the precise positioning of FNDs. The functionalized FNDs (f-FNDs) show increased size and zeta potential, confirming the antibody presence without compromising cell viability. Two-color confocal imaging and co-localization algorithms are employed to further attest to the success of the functionalization. The f-FNDs are applied to cell cultures of three cell lines: SH-SY5Y, differentiated dopaminergic neurons, and hippocampal rat neurons; their biocompatibility and effects on synaptic activity are explored. Moreover, preliminary total internal reflection fluorescence - optically detected magnetic resonance (TIRF-ODMR) experiments across cellular sites demonstrate the magnetic field sensitivity of our sensor network. The successful establishment of this sensor network provides a platform for characterizing neuronal signaling in healthy models and conditions mimicking Parkinson's disease.", 
